Home, Sweet Home (1914) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Interesting, if not totally successful, drama from Griffith tells fourdifferent stories with the later three being wrapped around John HowardPayne's song Home, Sweet Home. The film starts off with Payne (Henry B.Walthall) leaving his mother and sweetheart (Lillian Gish) to find famebut ends up in a world of depression only to die alone but firstwriting a song that would become famous much later. In the second storya man (Robert Harron) falls in love with a woman (Mae Marsh) but gets achance to go out West. The third story deals with two brothers (oneplayed by Donald Crisp) who hate one another and try to do each otheroff. The fourth story has a wife (Blanche Sweet) being tempted to leaveher husband for a man with more money. This Griffith film clocks in at55-minutes but it really doesn't feel like a feature but instead justfour shorts thrown together. I must admit that the director did a verygood job at connecting all three "separate" stories to the song fromthe first one. I thought Griffith did a pretty good job at building thestories up but all of them vary in quality. The opening has a strongperformance by Walthall and this is probably the best of the group.Gish is also quite strong as she and Walthall get some nice scenestogether. The story involving the man going out West is also a good onethanks in large part to the terrific performance by Harron. The storywith the two brothers is so over-dramatic that you can't help but rollyour eyes. I thought this was without question the weakest story. Thefinal one is the shortest but it's always nice to see Sweet. We evenget a prologue that features Walthall being dragged to Hell by someevil forces only to have an angel (played by Lillian Gish) to tryrescue him. As you can tell, this film features a terrific cast ofGriffith's regulars and we also get Dorothy Gish and Jack Pickford.Seeing such a large cast in a 55-minute movie is certainly a plus butone wishes the final two stories had been written just a tad bitbetter. With that said, fans of Griffith or the cast will find enoughhere to make this worth viewing at least once.
like ratio : 0.3333333333333333
interest ratio: 0.5