Toll Gate, The (1920) *** (out of 4) Outlaw Black Deering (William S. Hart) wants to retire after his gang'slatest robbery but they convince him to go after one more score. Hispartner ends up selling him out for the reward money and Deering swearsvengeance no matter how long it takes. He manages to escape from theposse and ends up on a small farm where he saves the life of a youngboy and becomes apart of his mother's life. Soon Deering wants to startlife fresh with them but his past is close behind. If you've seen anyof Hart's Westerns made before THE TOLL GATE then you're going to bethinking that this is a remake of about three dozen of them. In allseriousness, if you've seen one Hart picture then you basically get thesame story one film to the next but it says a lot about the persona ofHart that he managed to make each film so fresh and exciting even whenit offers up nothing new. At 70-minutes the film never gets boring aswe're treated to some nice drama as well as a couple very good actionscenes. The opening scenes of the men trying to rob the train werepretty exciting and the ending with Hart trying to track down the manwho set him up also offers some nice tension. The majority of the filmfeatures the same old story of Hart being a very bad man who falls fora woman who then makes him want to change his ways. At least in thisfilm his character goes through a transformation where the viewer canat least understand and see why he would want to change his ways. Thereare several cute scenes between the little boy and Hart that reallymake the film stand out. The boy never got to know his real father sohe looks forward to having a new dad in his life and this here makesfor some very good moments. Hart fits the role with ease as by thistime he could do this type of role in his sleep. He's benefited from avery strong supporting cast including Anna Q. Nilsson as the mother andRichard Headrick as the kid. Tom Jordan does a very good job playingthe snake who turns Hart in. The film also benefits from some authenticscenery that really helps build up an atmosphere of being in the OldWest. While the story is something we've seen before, the film is agood example of how you can bring fresh life to an old tale and withHart's performance you walk away satisfied.
like ratio : 0.0
interest ratio: 0.18181818181818182