When you enter into a film, you are accepting a world. You areaccepting whatever God and physics and mythology that the filmmaker hascreated. Within that world, wheels turn and things happen.All too often we think the movie is about those happenings. We focus oncharacters and the emotions they convey. But the deeper influence of afilm is in how the world works.Over time, movie watchers develop a sensitivity to this and makechoices about which worlds resonate or not. I have decided to boycott Glazier/Howard films because they areconvinced that we like a world where some bad things happen as if theywere rainstorms, but the entire cosmos is infused with a happysweetness.If you watch film deeply, this can ruin your whole day, with greatexpenditures of psychic energy in buying back your individuality. Soinstead of seeing "Cinderella Man" which is in the theaters now, Isought another boxing movie instead.Sure, we have "Raging Bull" which is an exercise in visualizing abrutal personality. And we have "Rocky" which is sort of cold war odeto nationalism. But I chose this because it is by a director whoseworld I respect.Tod Browning\'s world is a complex one, not catagorizable in terms of asingle type of God or fate, depending on how you think. He himselfcomes from a circus world with some elements of risk, some of heavyfate, and others of practiced comedy tied to honor.I credit Browning with laying the groundwork that allowed noir to takehold in the 30s, probably the strongest influence in film. So this filmis about a contender, several actually. And it IS a contender, butunlike Howard\'s cardboard guy, this fellow has a wife that destroys thefirst layer of his world in order to expose and reinforce the largerworld.In the story, that\'s the world of honor and striving and selfassurance. In the world of film, it is the world of self awareness andthe link of fate to the game.Ted\'s Evaluation -- 2 of 3: Has some interesting elements.
like ratio : 0.3333333333333333
interest ratio: 3.0