This B-western stars Rex Bell--a man who made quite a few Bs and alsomarried silent star, Clara Bow. For a very interesting account of thiswoman's life and her marriage to Bell, try reading "Clara Bow: RunningWild"--a very interesting biography.Now to the story. Like so many B-westerns of the era, this one is anodd combination of the old and new. The film is set in the present timeand is about gangsters and the like in New York. When the mob tries tokill Breezy Kildaire (Bell), he hightails it back to his family ranchout west. From here on, the film is filled with cowboys and thelike--things you'd expect to be seeing around the latter portion of the19th century. This odd juxtaposition of the old and new is not uncommonin B-westerns. Heck, I remember seeing a Gene Autry film chock full ofcowboys chasing pickup trucks on their horses as well as making phonecalls! Odd, but not all that uncommon. It is also odd that thesecowboys in "Broadway to Cheyenne" drink beer--it IS during prohibition.Talk about anachronistic! Once out west, Breezy learns of a 'protectiveassociation'--a group of mobsters selling 'protection'. In other words,if you don't pay them, then you can expect to have a life-threateningaccident or have your cattle machine gunned!! This is all very modernand odd in such a western setting--and something you might expect tosee in a Jimmy Cagney or Edward G. Robinson flick. I know I sure felt amight confused! So is the film worth seeing? Well, consideringHollywood made 1472950823 B-westerns, I don't think it's particularlygood--especially for the casual viewer. Now if you are a huge B-westernfan, it is probably worth seeing--even if Bell has a very stiff personaand the film has little to distinguish it from the crowd. Watchable butnot particularly inspired or interesting.By the way, you may or may not recognize Gabby Hays in this film. Inthe early portion of the 1930s, he still hadn't perfected his old cootsidekick persona--and here he looks a bit like this guy but not quiteas he's sporting a mustache instead of his usual beard. In fact, Haysplayed many different types of roles during this time inwesterns--erudite gentlemen, crazy old coots, villains or whatever elsewas needed in the movies. Regardless, he's the best thing about thisfilm--and is quite good in his small role.
like ratio : 0.3333333333333333
interest ratio: 0.42857142857142855