Nob Hill is a significant milestone in the career of George Raft. Thisfilm marks the last time he would be starring in a A film product. Fromnow on his films would be B films in which he would star or they wouldbe A products like Some Like It Hot where he was in the supportingcast. Not a milestone I'm sure Raft counted with any kind of relish.In the George Raft biography by James Parrish, Raft's co-star JoanBennett wrote the forward and this film marked the fourth and last timeshe was in a film with him. Raft was not happy making this film and didwalk off the set for a short time. He felt that 20th Century Fox wasbuilding up Vivian Blaine and Peggy Ann Garner at the expense of himand Joan Bennett. She was inclined to be more philosophical than heabout the vagaries of the film business. As we know he did come backand finish the movie.Raft plays the owner of one of the more upscale clubs on the BarbaryCoast at the turn of the last century and Vivian Blaine is his chiefattraction. One day into his life comes young Peggy Ann Garner who isfresh from Ireland because her uncle sent for her, her uncle being abartender at Raft's joint. But in the meantime he's passed on.Nevertheless Garner's one Irish charmer and Raft decides he'll takecare of her as does Blaine. Raft has ambitions however to get beyond the Barbary Coast and crashthe genteel society on Nob Hill which Blaine calls Snob Hill. Fuelingthose ambitions is Joan Bennett with her brother Edgar Barrier runningfor District Attorney.His romantic and political entanglements get kind of mixed and hisfellow entertainment barons on the Barbary Coast aren't happy withRaft's new friends. How Raft resolves all these personal and politicalproblems is the basis for Nob Hill.If Raft was worried about who was being showcased, he was right. PeggyAnn Garner steals this film right out from under her adult co-stars.Maybe if Vivian Blaine had gotten some memorable songs from the team ofJimmy McHugh and Harold Adamson she might have been better served bythe film as well.I've a feeling this film might very well have been intended for BettyGrable to co-star with Raft. She and Raft were an item back in the daybefore she married Harry James, maybe Darryl Zanuck thought he couldhave gotten some box office mileage. In any event Grable didn't do NobHill, not that her career would have been helped or hurt had she beenin the cast.Joan Bennett's forward says that at all times George Raft was a classygentleman and a terrific dancer. She recalled that many times she andhusband Walter Wanger were out on the town and if Raft was in the sameclub, she inevitably got to dance with him.Nob Hill is a decent enough film that doesn't quite measure up to someof the other nostalgic type films that 20th Century Fox was putting outthen that usually starred Betty Grable or Alice Faye. Still it's notbad and a must for fans of the winsome Peggy Ann Garner.
=============
like ratio : 1.0
interest ratio: 1.4
moviename: Nob Hill
number of likes: 14
number of interests : 14