The Sorrows of "The Joyless Street"Director Georg Wilhelm Pabst's "The Joyless Street" is one of the mostcensored and mutilated films in history. The film premier on May 18,1925 in Berlin. The film was a sensation and launched the new realitymovement in German film-making. The film was based on Hugo Bettauer's 1924 serialized novel. The filmversion would propel Greta Garbo to international fame.Bettauer would never see the premier of the film based on his novel. OnMarch 26, 1925, Beattauer was dead. Otto Rothstock, a nationalsocialist thug, had shot him to death. Bettauer had ironically writtena highly controversial dystopian satirical novel, called "A CityWithout Jews, A Novel About The Day After Tomorrow." The novel wasabout the expulsion of the Jews from Austria. Had he lived, Bettauerwould have seen his fictitious world become a prophetic reality in1938.The original version of "The Joyless Street" was a dark study of lifein hyper-inflation Vienna in the wake of the Great War. It was aboutpoverty and despair in a defeated country. In the original film, as inthe book, Pabst set out to tell the story how inflation destroyed thesundry spectra of society and led to people to live lives ofimpoverishment, desperation and despair. Pabst would tell his storythrough the lives of two main characters, Marie and Greta. Nielsonwould play Marie, a poverty stricken character with a brutal and cruelfather who would prostitute herself for the man she loves but whodespises her. Garbo would play Greta, the daughter of a foolish andsickly middle class bureaucrat, would would resist the temptation ofeasy money and prostitution.The film shocked European governments. England banned the film frompublic viewing. Italy, France, Austria and elsewhere would show thefilm only after it had been considerably mutilated.Americans thought that the only value of the film was the presence ofGreta Garbo. Curiously, Garbo was paid in American dollars rather thanworthless German ones.As a result, most of the available versions of this film were cut tomake the international sensation Great Garbo the star the film over thetop billed Asta Nielson, who played a woman driven to murder. Over the years, Nielson's leading part in the film will almost entirelyvanish like the Jews in Bettauer's novel.Garbo was the second lead to the once legendary Asta Nielson. Most of the story line involving Asta Nielson's character Maria Lechnerwas cut out of the film. Most of the story line involving Warner Krauss' abhorrent butcher ofMelchoir Street was cut out of the film. Other story lines, involving other characters, were cut out or toneddown. International censorship removed these segments long ago. They weredeemed too controversial and too dangerously political. When the film was released in America in 1927, Asta Nielson's characterwas edited out except for a brief part at the beginning.In 1937, this version was re-released with synchronized music and soundeffects. It is this terrible version people have most likely seen.The result of this censorious butchery a sappy happy Hollywood likeending where an American saves Greta from a life of hunger, misery andprostitution replaced the human tragedy that Pabst was intent onshowing in "The Joyless Street".Rumors persist that Marlene Dietrich had a part in this film. There isno evidence that she ever had a role in this film. The German actress Herta Von Walther played the part of the woman inButcher's line who comforts Greta when she collapsed. In the originalversion, Herta had a bigger part that involved prostituting herself tothe Butcher.Herta Von Walther is forgotten today, but she made four films withdirector Georg Wilhelm Pabst between the years 1925 and 1928. The fourare "The Joyless Street", "Secrets of a Soul", "The Love of JeanneNey", "Abwege". There is no record of director Georg Wilhelm Pabst having ever made anyfilms with Marlene Dietrich. Still the rumors persist.In 1999, the Munich Filmmuseum partially restored this this film. A 16mm reduction positive exists in the museum.Today, the film is mostly remembered as the last European role thetimorous, timid Greta Garbo played before coming to America with hermentor Maurice Stiller. In the January 1932 edition of Photoplaymagazine, Ruth Biery wrote, "Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer paid her $250 a weekto secure him for the movies. It is hard to say, "The Joyless Street"is a good or poor picture in its mutilated form but it did not harmGreta Garbo.
=============
like ratio : 0.85
interest ratio: 1.1764705882352942
moviename: The Joyless Street
number of likes: 17
number of interests : 20