Here's a perfect example of the pitfalls of writing about films:especially films from the earliest days of the cinema. The otherIMDb'ers who have posted reviews of Carmencita's performance for ThomasEdison's Kinetograph camera are apparently reviewing footage fromEdison Motion Picture #28, which has been reissued on DVD as part of"Edison: The Invention of the Movies". Well, I am likewise reviewingCarmencita's performance for Edison's Kinetograph. However, theperformance I saw (and which I'm reviewing) was a different performanceby the same dancer, filmed on the same occasion -- the second week ofMarch 1894 -- but photographed on a different negative and not includedin the DVD.I saw this film (the one I'm reviewing, mind) in October 2006 at theCinema Muto festival in Sacile, Italy. The print screened at Sacile wasretrieved from the National Fairground Archive in Sheffield, England.(WKL Dickson, who shot many films for Edison, was an Englishman; heshipped prints of many of his Edison films to Britain.) When theSheffield print was found, it was at first assumed to be one more copyof the existing Carmencita footage (the one on the DVD). However, afterrestoration, it was discovered that this was a 'lost' movie which noliving person knew had ever existed in the first place: a completelydifferent take of Carmencita's performance, differing significantlyfrom the 'known' version. Since Edison's catalogue lists only oneversion, this 'lost' film has been provisionally titled "Carmencita #2"and catalogued as EMP 28.1.This is certainly not a 'belly dance', despite a previous IMDb'er'scomment. Carmencita's performance here is virtually identical to theone in the DVD version, with one interesting difference: in the versionfound at Sheffield and screened at Sacile (the one I saw), the señoritaconcludes her performance by curtseying to the camera (or to itsoperator?) and offering a moue.Frame-by-frame comparisons make it clear that these are two separate'takes': two completely different pieces of footage of the same dancergiving similar but not identical performances. I'd be keen to learnwhich one was shot first. Carmencita's acknowledgment in the Sheffieldversion might imply that this was the conclusion of her performance,therefore the final take. Or perhaps this was her first take, andDickson may have felt that Carmencita's gesture -- appropriate enoughfor a live audience watching a stage performance -- was inappropriatefor a movie, and he required her to do a retake. Barring authorisationfor a trip yesterwards to March 1894 (grease up the time-portal!), it'sunlikely that anyone will ever know which version was shot first.On its own merits as an historic artefact, I'll rate "Carmencita #2" 6points out of 10 ... plus one point extra (7 total) because this filmand its twin sister -- placed side by side -- serve as a caution tothose who would review old-time movies, or who would criticise otherreviewers' film scholarship: sometimes the version which you saw, andthe version which I saw, really are NOT the same movie!
=============
like ratio : 0.8461538461538461
interest ratio: 1.0833333333333333
moviename: Carmencita
number of likes: 11
number of interests : 13