As I watched this recently on Turner Movie Classics, a number of trivialpoints ran through my mind.  David O. Selznick certainly had a knack formaking clear statements and making sure that everything in his productions(at least up to this time) was easily understood by viewers of alllevels.As his cinematographer, Lee Garmes, was noted for his tendency toward darkimages, I was constantly aware of the many shadows in his shots.  For hisactors to move from one position to another they walk through at least onearea of total darkness. There are many shadows on their faces, manyprofiles, and sharp light and dark contrasts in the background.  WhileSelznick reportedly didn\'t appreciate Garmes\' signature style for GWTW,David certainly tolerated it here, and this dark ambiance gave "Since YouWent Away" a quality of depth and substance it might not otherwise havehad.David\'s effort to get the "perfect" cast paid off. With Colbert anchoringthe enactment with a great performance, the film was also blessed withexcellent work from Cotten, Jones, Temple, Wooley, McDaniel, Moorhead, etal.It looks like Colbert\'s preference for being photographed from the left sideis valid. On my system, motion can be stopped and slowly forwarded,observing her from the right side when she turns.  In real time one onlyglimpses; in slow motion one can see her point.  Max Steiner\'s themes are quite haunting (one of his main ones revealsgeneric influences of the "Liebestod" from Tristan und Isolde--another thebasis for a later Christmas song) and his careful underscoring of everyaction works well here.  TMC Channel\'s inclusion of the complete Overtureand Entr\'acte enhances the presentation\'s effectiveness.  It\'s a joy to seematerial once cut from so many "classics" now sensitivelyrestored.Knowing what the Walkers were going through in real life (maritalseparation) during this filming does indeed make me further appreciate thefine quality of their work.  Though Jennifer reportedly often left the setin tears, not a hint of that shows.  That indeed is strongacting.The volume of sad and tragic events depicted in this film now seems, by theend, a wee bit much.  Still, this "tear jerker supreme" continues to beenjoyed by many viewers, and "Since You Went Away," remains a nostalgicenactment of an emotional period in American history.  
=============
like ratio : 0.8461538461538461
interest ratio: 0.5977011494252874
moviename: Since You Went Away
number of likes: 44
number of interests : 52