"Hop-Along Cassidy" (aka "Hopalong Cassidy Enters") was the first of 66features starring William Boyd as Hoppy. One of the most successful andbestwritten of the "B" western series, it was to run from 1935 to 1948.As written by Clarence E. Mulford, Cassidy was a crude, crusty ranch handand definitely not intended as a Saturday Matinee hero. In fact, characteractor James Gleason, who looked nothing like a hero was apparently firstoffered the part.Boyd, who had been around Hollywood since the early 20s and had fallenfromgrace, ultimately was cast in the part. It was decided between himself andproducer Harry "Pop" Sherman that Boyd would not play the character aswritten.In this first entry in the series, Boyd plays the character with a fewrough edges, all of which would disappear in future films. He starts outas"Bill" Cassidy but acquires his nickname "Hopalong" when is wounded in theleg and is forced to hop along with the aid of a cane.The story involves two competing ranchers, Buck Peters of the Bar-20(Charles Middleton) and Meeker (Robert Warwick) arguing over the openrangeland for their cattle. Meeker\'s foreman known as Pecos Jack (KennethThompson) is behind a plot to set the two ranches against each other whilestealing their cattle, changing their brands and selling them off forhimself.In this first entry in the series the traditional trio comprises Hoppy,Johnny Nelson (James Ellison) and Red Connors (Frank McGlynn Jr.). GeorgeHayes by this time had evolved into the character he would play for therestof his career. In this picture he plays a ranch hand named "Uncle Ben".Although still not using the name "Gabby", he would appear later in theseries as the grizzled sidekick "Windy Halliday".Also in the cast are Paula Stone as Mary Meeker, Ellison\'s love interest,Willie Fung as the Meeker\'s Chinese cook, who provides most of the comicrelief, and veterans John Merton and Franlyn Farnum in otherroles.Charles Middleton would achieve some measure of fame as "Ming theMerciless" in the Flash Gordon serials. The character of Red Connors wouldbe resurrected in the Hopalong Cassidy TV series of the 50s with EdgarBuchanan playing the part.
=============
like ratio : 0.8461538461538461
interest ratio: 2.1666666666666665
moviename: Hop-Along Cassidy
number of likes: 11
number of interests : 13