Rich, sexy, haunting and ultimately quite tragic, this classic COLUMBOepisode combines a stark and surprisingly powerful performance bycountry superstar Johnny Cash with an even more sensational star turnby screen legend Ida Lupino. Tommy Brown is a weak, shiftless country music singer, lured into theChristian crusade by his strong-willed, majestic wife Edna. Even thoughhis talent and charisma are what make the Lost Soul Crusade such abreakout success, Edna keeps all the money to realize her dream ofbuilding the great tabernacle. Tommy can\'t even afford his own car! Soone night he sets up an ingenious plan to kill Edna (and her sweet,pretty young assistant) and leave himself in control of the musicfortune that should rightfully be his. What makes this crime story a classic is not really the clues or themystery, but the way each character is so richly full and rounded.Tommy Brown is not really an evil man. At the beginning he makes a verygood case that Edna should share some of the money he earns with hismusic. He\'s weak, but he\'s not just a nobody. He really does have aspecial talent and he feels very strongly that the American dreamshould be his. Money, fame, and success are not worth killing for --but when a man has a special talent and has to watch his money go outof his hands, to build someone else\'s dream, it\'s not fair. Edna Brown is equally fascinating. Even though she\'s a very attractiveolder woman, it\'s obvious she has no use for Tommy in her bed. She\'struly a woman of God, with courage and vision and an unselfish dream.Her tragedy is that she really is too strong to understand humanweakness. Using blackmail and scare tactics to keep her sinful husbandin line somehow doesn\'t make her quite so repulsive as you wouldexpect. She really is like a majestic and queenly figure. At the sametime, watch the way she treats her assistant, Mary Ann. This is a verypretty, shy young girl Tommy seduced and ruined. It would be so easyfor Edna to make the young girl\'s life miserable, screeching at her andpicking at her for giving in to her sinful desires. But if you watchclosely, it becomes obvious that Edna looks after Mary Ann just like amother. The two of them are devoted to each other. And when Tommy makeshis fateful decision, you really feel for all three people -- trappedin an American tragedy of greed, guilt, and spiritual ambition gonewrong. Even as a ten year old boy, I was hypnotized by this story. It struckme as being far above the usual television drama. And now, thirty yearslater, having gone to school and read books like ABSALOM, ABSALOM andAn American Tragedy, my opinion of this very special COLUMBO episode iseven higher. This is not only great television, it is truly a work ofart!
=============
like ratio : 0.868421052631579
interest ratio: 1.52
moviename: `` Columbo '' Swan Song ( 1974 )
number of likes: 33
number of interests : 38