Up to the time it was released in 1945 Caesar and Cleopatra was themost expensive British film ever made. It was as though the Britishcinema was trying to show America it could do a DeMille like epic asgood as Cecil B. DeMille or anyone else from Hollywood. It may havebeen a little too overdone. Director Gabriel Pascal might have gotten abit carried away with the spectacle and the audience might well havemissed some of George Bernard Shaw's inspired dialog.And Pascal had the advantage of the aged Mr. Shaw personallysupervising the production. Of course Shaw insisted on total fidelityto his play and the ideas therein. I understand that J. Arthur Rankwanted to have a little sex and romance in there, like DeMille did do,but Shaw would have none of it.What sets Caesar and Cleopatra apart from other Cleopatra stories thatstarred Theda Bara, Elizabeth Taylor, and Claudette Colbert is thatShaw portrayed her as probably what she was, a silly teenager who justhappens to be Queen of Egypt. There's a little bit of Scarlett O'Harain Vivien Leigh's performance as she moves from silly teen to a youngwomen well schooled in statecraft by Julius Caesar.Claude Rains plays a world weary Julius Caesar and the Shavian quipsroll off his tongue with great aplomb. Like George Bernard Shaw's othermasterpiece Pygmalion, Rains tutors Leigh and the results far exceedwhat he could have hoped for.Production on Caesar and Cleopatra was begun while there was still ashooting war in Europe and V-2s and other such explosive devices werestill raining down on the United Kingdom. A couple came real close tothe studio in London this was being filmed at.Stewart Granger got his first real notice in this film playingApollodorus and Francis L. Sullivan plays a blustering and plottingPothinos. If you look hard among the various slave women you will findboth Jean Simmons and Kay Kendall among the extras.You will also like both Basil Sydney as Ruffio and Cecil Parker asBritanus, two aides to Caesar who both occasionally give him a realitycheck.Caesar and Cleopatra failed to recoup the cost of making it in initialrelease. J. Arthur Rank misjudged the British public taste post WorldWar II. Maybe a little less expense and more attention to Shaw's wordsand the film might have been better.Still it's pretty good as is.
=============
like ratio : 0.96875
interest ratio: 0.7111111111111111
moviename: Caesar and Cleopatra
number of likes: 31
number of interests : 32