At the end of World War II the U.K. Gainsborough Studios had a veryfine reputation based on the production of a long string of successfulfilms, and backed by a list of very well known performers on whom theycould call. November 1945 saw the release of "The Wicked Lady" - a filmversion of a historical novel by Magdalen King Hall which featured fourof their major stars, with Margaret Lockwood in the title rolesupported by Jean Kent, James Mason and Patricia Roc. Initially thisfilm was panned by many of the critics, but it was immensely successfulat the U.K. box office and has now certainly achieved the status of amajor black and white classic. I first saw it at quite a young age soonafter it was released, and (perhaps largely because of myimpressionable age) thought it must be one of the most sexy films everreleased. However a few years later I saw it again and this confirmedmy first impression. Margaret Lockwood was a great actress whoparticipated in some 50 films during a career which spanned over morethan 40 years. The Wicked Lady was a mid-career film made at a timewhen she was at the peak of her powers and she gave a memorable, ifchilling, performance in the part of Lady Barbara Skelton Theperformances of her co-stars were perhaps not quite so memorable, butthis was largely because the premise of both the book and the film wasthat the wicked lady had a very much stronger character than anyoneelse with whom she interacted, and it would be hard to seriously faultany of the acting.For some reason this film never achieved comparable success in theU.S.A. Because the meticulously recreated seventeenth century costumesused for the original version displayed too much décolletage for theHayes office, it was re-filmed a year after it was first released withmodified costumes, specifically designed for the U.S. market. Accordingto IMDb, Universal Pictures were the U.S. distributors; but the filmdoes not seem to be widely known and may only have received a verylimited distribution - IMDb do not even list a U.S. rating for thisfilm. Thirty eight years later the film was remade under the same titlein colour, with Faye Dunaway in the title role. As is so often the casein such circumstances I found the original version to be very much morememorable, but unfortunately it has now become very difficult topurchase in a form suitable for home viewing. A DVD in PAL format hasbeen released in Europe, but I do not think it was ever produced inNTSC format - one hopes this was not because of continuing concernabout the necklines.This year is the sixtieth anniversary of the original film (which wasnever released in the United States) and I am now submitting thesecomments to IMDb to suggest that the anniversary provides an idealopportunity to release a North American DVD version of it. Many classicblack and white films have been released on DVD in this way during thepast few years and "The Wicked Lady" would be a worthy addition to thislist. Some of the listed prices for such releases tend to be ratherhigh, suggesting that large sales of monochrome films are not expectedtoday. If this is a concern the original version of the film couldprobably be paired with the 1983 colour remake in a double releasewhich would provide viewers interested in the development of the moderncinema with an excellent opportunity to compare the film makingtechniques of two very different periods.
=============
like ratio : 0.875
interest ratio: 0.9230769230769231
moviename: The Wicked Lady
number of likes: 21
number of interests : 24