There\'s nothing better than a dark involved movie about death to bring youout of your blues.  Having been laid off today from a high-tech, high-payingjob, I find that this is a far better escape from my blues than gettingskunk-drunk.  Now I\'ll be able to afford the time to see such movies...thiswas at the Brattle Theater, an arts movie house in Cambridge that regularlyshows movies written when brains were necessary to write a script that wouldbe made into a movie.  Of course, I saw it way back when but the mark of a good movie is that yousee a different movie every time you see it, because YOU change and yourinterpretation therefore changes.  The surreal scenes in the Undergroundevoke many other images, and, because of their wierdness, cannot beforgotten.  It raises questions about the \'finality\' of death, and therelative unimportance of so much in life (including jobs/employment).  Thelove of the two protagonists for one another is especially intriguing, sinceCocteau at first gives you the impression that Orpheus is a narcissisticwriter only in love with himself.The fierce command for Orpheus NOT to look at Eurydice reminds you of Lot\'swife, as she turned into the pillar of salt.  Of course, I still wonder whythat part was in here.....maybe just to make us wonder about disobedience. The mob throwing rocks at the house was indicative of mob mentalityeverywhere and anytime.The motorcyclists, angels of death, remind you of "The Wild One" as theyperform their ghastly tasks in the small French town.  As the other deadpeople make their sacrifices for one another, with no mention of religion,you almost have a re-awakened faith in the power of love.Which is what religion is all about anyhow,-- not in the ghost stories weare told to help make the fear of death/nothingness morepallatable.Cocteau was a genius, and his movies are unique.  Invest in them while youcan, and re-visit them from time to time when you need a reminder of howprecious love and life are.
=============
like ratio : 0.9310344827586207
interest ratio: 0.5918367346938775
moviename: Orpheus
number of likes: 27
number of interests : 29