More than 80 years after its release, the first adaptation of "The LostWorld" remains as one of the most influential silent films ever, due toWillis O'Brien pioneer advances in the field of special effects, as itshowcases the first time stop motion animation was used to createcreatures on a feature length film. These innovation was of hugeimportance for this and future films, and earned Willis O'Brien and hisdinosaurs a place in history as an iconic image in film history, onlysurpassed by another of O'Brien's creations: King Kong.Based on Arthur Conan Doyle's novel of the same name, "The Lost World"is the tale of Prof. Challenger's (Wallace Beery) epic quest lookingfor the living dinosaurs who supposedly live in the deep Amazonicjungle, according to the journal of his fellow explorer Maple White,who disappeared in his last exploration. Maple's daughter, Paula(Bessie Love) joins the expedition looking for her missing father, aswell as Sir John Roxton (Lewis Stone), an experienced hunter friend ofChallenger. Prof. Summerlee (Arthur Hoyt) goes as well, hoping to provethat Challenger is a fraud, and finally, reporter Edward Malone (LloydHughes) joins the expedition, hoping to prove his girlfriend Gladys(Alma Bennet) that he is brave enough to face death.Cleverly adapted by Broadway playwright Marion Fairfax (who alsoadapted in 1922 another of Conan Doyle's works, "Sherlock Holmes"), thefilm is an excellent mix of action and adventure that even when it'snot entirely faithful to the novel, keeps the spirit of wonder andfascination with the unknown. From the obsessive Challenger to theincredulous Summerlee, every character is very detailed and for themost part well constructed, giving each one of them a definedpersonality and a certain degree depth absent in many silent films.However, the film's best remembered characteristic is the incrediblespecial effects by Willis O'Brien, who after mastering his craft inshort films got his first work in "The Lost World" and changed specialeffects forever. His imagery is very vivid, and very detailedconsidering the limited resources he had. Sadly, Harry O. Hoyt'sdirection takes zero advantage of Fairfax's story and O'Brien'seffects, and delivers a simplistic and unoriginal work that addsnothing to the whole work and seems to let the cast and crew do theirjob. It's not a bad direction as a whole, but it feels uninterested onthe many possibilities a film like this posses.The cast is quite effective, and really does a great job with what theyhave, starting with legendary Wallace Beery, who as Prof. Challengerdelivers one of the best performances in a silent film. Without the aidof sound, Beery shows a wide range of emotions in his complex characterand is great in both drama and comedy. Lloyd Hughes is very good as thecowardly Malone, and showcases a talent for comedy as well as aromantic figure, as his character shows interest in Paula White, playedby Bessie Love, who makes a fine counterpart to Hughes and delivers anatural, and fresh performance. Lewis Stone completes the cast and hisdignified performance as Sir John Roxton is very effective.It's safe to say that "The Lost World" owes more to O'Brien and Fairfaxthan to O'Hoyt, and that probably with a more experienced director thefilm would had been even better. However, the film's real problem hasnothing to do with the way it was made, but with the way it waspreserved during most of its history. Nowadays there is not a completeversion of the movie, most home video versions are of the 64 minutesversion, while one (Image) is of a 93 minutes reconstruction. And whileprobably that version is the closest we can be to the original runtimeof the film, it sadly has modernized the dialogs, to the point thatsome lines are rewritten to fit our modern standards.Hopefully, one day we'll be able to see "The Lost World" as it wasintended to be, but meanwhile, we can still appreciate the enormousimportance of its amazing special effects, and how it forecasts filmslike "Jurassic Park" in many ways. This epic tale of action, adventureand horror has probably not seen a better adaptation than this, themovie that set everything for the arrival of King Kong and changedspecial effects for ever. 8/10
like ratio : 1.0
interest ratio: 0.3013698630136986