The human memory does not operate in a straightforward, linear manner.We do not remember events in neat chronological order, nor do we alwaysimmediately understand the meaning behind what we are seeing. Ourmemories are a jumble of seemingly-random but ultimately connectedimages, sporadically jumping between remembered places and moments,associations triggered by the repeated appearance of deceptivelymundane but eerily familiar objects. There is much to be learned fromexploring the unfathomable depths of the mind, and Russian animatorYuriy Norshteyn's 'Tale of Tales' strives to do exactly that.In 1984, in an event held in conjunction with the Los Angeles Olympics,the Animation Olympiad jury attempted to recognise the single greatestanimated film of all time. Despite a wealth of worthy candidates, onefilm was ultimately crowned with the grand title: that film, of course,was 'Tale of Tales.' Two decades later, at the 2002 Zagreb WorldFestival of Animated Films, the same film was honoured with the sameprestigious title, confirming beyond doubt that time has done nothingto dampen its beauty. Norshteyn's masterpiece is a triumph of stunninganimation, ambient sound and a stirring classical score. Despite beingheld in such high regard by so many animation experts, I was surprisedto discover how rare and under-seen this film actually is. Only via theinternet was I able to watch it, and my hearing about it in the firstplace can be put down to blind luck. Needless to say, I am infinitelygrateful that I did stumble upon the film one day.'Tales of Tales' is comprised of a number of related sequences, whichare interspersed within each other. The film uses several recurringcharacters, most notably the poet, the little girl playing jump-ropewith the disheartened bull, the young boy feeding apples to the crows,the dancers and the soldiers, the suckling baby and, of course, thelittle grey wolf (voiced by Aleksandr Kalyagin). The meanings behindthe film's poignant images are somewhat beyond words, and, even if youhave absolutely no desire to try and decipher the rich symbolism, youcan still simply sit back and take in the awesome beauty. The sequencesinvolving the dancers are most certainly an allegory for Russia'sinvolvement in World War Two. The vanishing male dance partners,replaced by hooded Grim Reapers who retreat solemnly into the distance,highlight the enormous human losses the Soviet Union suffered on theEastern Front.The original title of the short, 'The Little Grey Wolf Will Come,' wasderived from a traditional Russian lullaby, which is featured in thefilm in both instrumental and vocal form: "Baby, baby, rock-a-bye / Onthe edge you mustn't lie / Or the little grey wolf will come / And willnip you on the tum / Tug you off into the wood / Underneath thewillow-root." This title, however, was ultimately rejected by theSoviet censors, and Norshteyn was forced to choose another one. Heeventually decided upon 'Tale of Tales,' the title of a poem by Turkishpoet Nazim Hikmet, of which the director had been a fan since 1962: "Westand above the water - sun, cat, plane tree (platanus tree), me / andour destiny. / The water is cool, / The plane tree is tall, / The sunis shining, / The cat is dozing, / I write verses. / Thank God, welive!" The film employs an original music score by Mikhail Meyerovich,supplementing his contributions with the classic works of Bach, Mozartand the World War Two era tango, 'Weary Sun,' written by JerzyPetersburski.Curiously, 'Tale of Tales' – completed in 1979 – is the most recentfilm directed by Yuriy Norshteyn. This, however, does not mean that hehas not been working hard. Ever since 1981, the director has dedicatedmost of his time to producing 'Shinel / The Overcoat,' his 60-minutelabour of love, adapted from Nikolai Gogol's short story of the samename. Throughout a production period plagued with interruptions andfinancial difficulties, Norshteyn's ardent perfectionism has earned himthe nickname, "The Golden Snail." A release date for 'The Overcoat' iscurrently uncertain, but, if the magnificent 'Tale of Tales' isanything to go by, we are all in for a treat!
=============
like ratio : 0.8928571428571429
interest ratio: 1.4
moviename: Tale of Tales
number of likes: 25
number of interests : 28