The movie very closely parallels the real events of January 30 toFebruary 16, 1925 in terms of the general story line. There are somesignificant differences concerning the actions of the characters.Floyd Collins, a cave explorer working alone (not a real good idea),was trapped in Sand Cave KY, near Mammoth Cave. He was not looking fortreasure, but for a new cave suitable for commercializing to produceincome in an economically depressed region...and this was before theDepression occurred.He became trapped on the way out of the cave by a 27 lb. rock whichrolled onto his leg in a narrow crawlway. The configuration was suchthat it could not be moved enough to get his foot past.When he failed to return home, the family went searching and quicklyfound him only 150' inside the cave.A huge rescue effort was mounted and a cub reporter, Skeets Miller,from Louisville KY showed up to cover the story. It became one of thethree most widely broadcast events of the time. Besides the extensivenewspaper coverage, the relatively new medium of commercial radioriveted listeners with hourly accounts. It quickly became the firstmedia circus ever seen.Because of the print and radio coverage people began flocking to thesite. A carnival atmosphere did indeed spring up around the cave. Thestate police and National Guard were called out by the governor tocontrol the chaos and the more than 20,000 onlookers. The similaritybetween the real event and the movie on this account are likely nearlyidentical.As in the movie, a decision was made to drill a shaft and, also as inthe movie, the rock was fairly unstable and prone to collapse from thepounding of the cable tool drilling rig. The longer the effort went on,the more unstable the cave passage became.Unlike Kirk Douglas' character in the movie, Skeets Miller served amost honorable role. Due to his small build he became one of very fewpersons able, and eventually the only one willing, to enter in anattempt to deliver food and water to Collins. He received a PulitzerPrize for his reporting. Also unlike the movie, there was nomanipulation of the event to delay the rescue, but there wasconsiderable disagreement over how to best do it. Area coal miners madethe initial attempts and the event concluded with the above-mentionedshaft.Collins was presumed to have died 3 days before rescuers reached him.Because the conditions were so unstable, the body was left in the cave.The family was able to remove him about 80 days afterward for a properburial. Later, his glass-topped casket was returned to thenow-commercial cave as a tourist attraction. It was removed once again,and finally, in 1989.In 1982, a definitive account of the event was published in the book'Trapped!'. A most informative read.In a take-off of the 'Free Tibet' bumper stickers, vehicles areoccasionally seen with a 'Free Floyd Collins' sticker.
like ratio : 0.9459459459459459
interest ratio: 0.23870967741935484