Don't be deceived by the prominent billing of Lon Chaney Jr or theadvertising that stresses all the horror in this little yarn. In pointof fact, Mr Chaney is confined to a rather small role. He's neither ourheroine's husband nor lover. He's not even the gorilla! Mr Chaney staysfirmly on the right side of the law for once, while Raymond Burr in hisusual confidently cool, surly, self-assured manner enacts the titlerole opposite the legendary Barbara Payton (here looking extremelyattractive, thanks to flattering photography and most seductive—ifrather inappropriate by jungle standards—costumes. She speaks her lineswith more than adequate conviction too).Tom Conway walks through his part with his usual, blandly smoothimpeccability, whilst Carol Varga's eye-catching native girl givesBarbara a fair run in the beauty stakes. Woody Strode is also on handas a policeman who has a key scene with a black-robed, rather sinisterservant-lady.As a director, Mr Siodmak takes great care that every word of themarking-time hokey dialogue he has contrived for his script, be clearlyand distinctly heard. His actors are coached to speak carefully and toenunciate with great deliberation so that not one time- consumingcliché be lost. In other respects too, Siodmak's handling has not agreat deal to recommend it. Even at 65 minutes, the pacing appearsremarkably slow, even tired, listless, dull. Except for a few shots ofthe camera tracking subjectively through the undergrowth and the jawsof the gorilla flashing momentarily right in front of the lens, Siodmakdoes little to capture audience interest in his tale. He focuses moreof his attention on the bride than the gorilla—which is fine for usBarbara Payton fans, but may leave horror and fantasy devotees feelingrather short-changed.All told, from a horror perspective Bride of the Gorilla turns out as atame and tedious affair that signally fails to deliver the frights andthe terror promised by its script and its advertising. We see only afew flashes of the gorilla (an obvious impersonation by a stuntman inthe same well-used monkey suit the costume company has been renting outfor twenty years) and there's no impressive special effects workeither. Most of the movie perambulates around three or four sets andwas obviously lensed on an extremely tight budget. (In fact, it wasreportedly shot in ten days).Bride does have one other important factor (aside from Miss Payton), inits favor, however. It was superbly photographed by Charles Van Enger.If you love glossy photography, Bride of the Gorilla is your meat.
=============
like ratio : 0.8571428571428571
interest ratio: 0.5833333333333334
moviename: Bride of the Gorilla
number of likes: 18
number of interests : 21