"The High and the Mighty", the granddaddy of air disaster movies, oftenfalls into almost campy melodrama, but under the direction of thelegendary \'Wild Bill\' Wellman, and punctuated by one of DimitriTiomkin\'s most bombastic yet exciting scores (earning him an Oscar),the film maintains such a level of intensity that it remains constantlyentertaining. With John Wayne heading an ensemble cast (includingseveral co-stars from the past, as well as personal friends), it iscertainly an essential for any \'Duke\' film library.Produced by Wayne-Fellows Productions, and \'owned\', eventually, by theWayne family\'s Batjac Productions (along with "Hondo", "McLintock!",and "Island in the Sky"), the film was a BIG hit, when released, andoffered one of Wayne\'s better performances, then gained even greaterstature as it was unseen for a generation. I\'ve always held the beliefthat the family planned to release the entire quartet of films in 2007,to mark the centennial of Duke\'s birth, but two events changed theplan; first, an unauthorized, \'remixed\' VHS version of "McLintock!" wasreleased, with rumors that a version of "Hondo" was also in the works,forcing Michael Wayne, then President of Batjac, to release authorizedVHS versions of the two films, rather than have the market glutted withbad copies; second, with Michael\'s death, in 2003, the Wayne familyrethought the master plan, deciding to release the entire collection onDVD earlier. For whatever reason, seeing "The High and the Mighty"again is a cause to celebrate! Based on Ernest K. Gann\'s bestseller (which would inspire ArthurHailey\'s later novel, "Airport"), the story centers around a routinecommercial flight between Honolulu and San Francisco, which becomes alife-and-death drama when one engine explodes, just beyond the \'Pointof No Return\'. With limited fuel, in deteriorating weather, the crisisbrings out the best and worst in both passengers and crew.Wayne as the co-pilot, is quite good, playing a character older than heactually was (the role had been written for Spencer Tracy, who pulledout, just prior to filming); Robert Stack almost foreshadows hischaracter in "Airplane!" as the no-nonsense pilot who goes ballisticwhen stressed. For cockpit \'overacting\', however, the award has to goto Wally Brown, as the navigator, with his bugged-out eyes, visions ofhis shrewish wife, and WILDLY unruly hair...While the passengers are all stereotypes, several actors are quite goodin their roles, with standout performances by Claire Trevor and JanSterling (both Oscar-nominated), Robert Newton, Paul Kelly, and PaulFix. While Phil Harris attempts to inject humor into his role, it onlyworks sporadically (and Ann Doran, as his wife, plays \'hysterical\' soconvincingly that you want to STRANGLE her!) Laraine Day, third-billed(and, with Trevor, a previous Wayne leading lady), is remarkablyunlikable as a rich wife with a \'bought\' husband (John Howard); SidneyBlackmer plays the \'mandatory\' unbalanced type; and veteran characteractor John Qualen adds another \'ethnic\' portrayal to his long list, asa Latin family man (with a Norwegian accent!) A bit of trivia: Theyoung boy on board was portrayed by director Wellman\'s son! Almost as fascinating as the story is seeing how much has changed,since the film was released; the plane\'s \'tail\' is controlled bypulleys and wires in a rear compartment; the sole flight attendant is a"stewardess"; and everyone smokes (especially in the cockpit). On amore somber note, there is NO security, and one passenger boardseasily, carrying a gun. It is, sadly, a wiser world, today...While no one would ever accuse "The High and the Mighty" of being afilm classic, it\'s role in creating the \'airplane disaster\' genre can\'tbe denied, and it continues to be a vastly enjoyable John Waynefeature.It\'s great to have it back!
like ratio : 0.9565217391304348
interest ratio: 0.1377245508982036