I LOVE this film. Cukor made it the same year as PHILADELPHIA STORY andit has the same exact feel and tone. This film was definitely eclipsedby the Hepburn one but deserves to be revived. Crawford is magnificent.I have never seen her play comedy like this and under Cukor's directionshe excels. It proved what a versatile actress she could be. I don'tunderstand comments like "she gives a poor imitation of what GertrudeLawrence did on-stage". I highly doubt the person who wrote that eversaw the original stage production. He says he heard Lawrence speaklines from PRIVATE LIVES on a recording with Noel Coward and obviouslythat is what Joan was trying to imitate. Joan does not imitate otherpeople and Cukor would never have allowed her to. I find it odd thatwhen Crawford stretches herself in character parts like RAIN, SUSAN ANDGOD, THE WOMEN, and A WOMAN'S FACE her public, and more importantlyMGM, did not support her when she is obviously and magnificentlybroadening her horizons and simultaneously doing great work. THE WOMENwas the only one of this bunch that was a hit. But MGM never seemed fitto promote Joan for an Oscar. Watch this film and you will be surprisedat this twist in the MGM Crawford. I think her transition at the end isremarkable and the character of Susan really grows and changes. I'msure it was difficult for Crawford to portray a flighty, ditsy,scatterbrained woman but she really connects with something in this. Iwatch this movie at least twice a year. People complain it is stageyand long but with dialogue this good I'll take it over a movie half itslength. The supporting cast is great. Watch Rita Hayworth in an earlyrole. Fredric March, as usual, is brilliant and wonderful alongsideCrawford. This is Joan's best comedy; and more than that, an excellentfilm. It's subject matter resonates today with it's "new age" religiousfervor. I only wish Cukor had directed her in more because she respondssoooooo well to him. Imagine if he directed GOODBYE, MY FANCY or TORCHSONG. Ah well, you can't have everything.
=============
like ratio : 0.9047619047619048
interest ratio: 0.75
moviename: Susan and God
number of likes: 19
number of interests : 21