MONKEY BUSINESS (Paramount, 1931), directed by Norman McLeod, andwritten by S.J. Perelman, presents those four zany Marx Brothers intheir third feature comedy. Following their previous efforts in THECOCOANUTS (1929) and ANIMAL CRACKERS (1930), each based on their 1920sstage works filmed at Paramount's Astoria studios in Long Island, NY,MONKEY BUSINESS, produced in Hollywood, was the team's first originalcomedy and one of their most funnier outings. While no relation to the20th Century- Fox 1952 comedy starring Cary Grant and Ginger Rogers,except in title only, and having nothing to do with monkeys, thispresentation does get right down to business when comedy is concerned.Here Groucho, Harpo, Chico and Zeppo play four stowaways aboard shipbound for the states who, after being discovered hiding in barrelssinging "Sweet Adeline," they are pursued by First Officer Gibson (TomKennedy) and his crew, which has the foursome running all over theship, eluding authorities and driving practically everybody out oftheir minds. Eventually the four stowaways separate, with Chico andHarpo posing as barbers; Groucho acting as the captain, invading thesanctity of the captain's quarters where he and Chico makes themselvesat home by eating his meals; Harpo later chasing the young ladies aswell as entertaining little children at a puppet show while at the sametime making a fool out of Gibson. Harpo even finds time making friendswith a frog, but keeps it under his hat. As for Zeppo, in betweenchases, he finds time escorting a young lady named Mary (Ruth Hall)around the deck. Afterwards, they all encounter rival gangsters,Groucho encounters Alkie Briggs (Harry Woods), after being found withhis wife, Lucille (Thelma Todd) in her state room. Briggs, however,takes a liking to Groucho and offers him a job, along with Zeppo, ashis personal bodyguards. Chico and Harpo encounter Briggs' rival, JoeHelton (Rockcliffe Fellows), Mary's father and Zeppo's love interest,each becoming Helton's bodyguards as well. After docking in New York,the Marx Brothers find they must get past custom officials to get off.After obtaining the passport belonging to the popular Frenchentertainer, Maurice Chevalier (who does not appear), they passthemselves off as Chevalier, singing one of his current hit songs, "YouBrought a New Kind of Love to Me," but to no avail. How the silentHarpo gets by with this must be seen to be believed. While the final 25minutes shifts over to a swank party given by Kelton to introduce hisdaughter, Mary, to high society, the Marxes join in the function withdysfunctional tendencies as Groucho insults the guests, Chico and Harpoentertain with their traditional piano and harp interludes, whileBriggs and his gang sneak in, posing as musicians, to carry out theirplot of kidnapping Kelton's daughter, Mary, by holding her hostageinside a barn.Virtually plot less in a sense, MONKEY BUSINESSS plays like an extendedcomedy short that would have worked equally well had it starred theThree Stooges. MONKEY BUSINESS is pure Marx Brothers nonsense thatappears to be every bit as funny today as it possibly was way back in1931. Anything goes with this film, including many memorable shipboardmoments including Groucho's comedic dance with Thelma Todd; Grouchodoing his bit by posing as a reporter interviewing and insulting thecultured Madame Pucchi (Cecil Cunningham, in a manner somewhat similarto Margaret Dumont, Groucho's frequent foil and straight-woman).GROUCHO: "Is it true you're getting a divorce as soon as your husbandrecovers his eyesight? Is it true you wash your hair in clam broth? Isis true you used to dance in a flea circus?" MADAME PUCCHI: "This isoutrageous! I don't like this innuendo." GROUCHO: "That's what I alwayssay. Love flies out the door when money comes innuendo."; the Chico andGroucho exchange regarding Christopher Columbus: GROUCHO: "Columbussailed from Spain to India looking for a short cut," CHICO: "Oh, youmean a strawberry short cut?;" Harpo coming out from a barrel of hay inthe barn and seen kissing a calf, and much more.As with most of the Marx Brothers films produced by Paramount, MONKEYBUSINESS is pure comedy at best. Had this been done over at MGM, wherethe Marx Brothers would be employed (1935 to 1941), MONKEY BUSINESSmost definitely be toned down some in comedy antics with extendedromantic subplots and straight-forward and lengthy musical numbers.MONKEY BUSINESS has none of that. Unlike most Marx Brothers comedies,their characters in MONKEY BUSINESS have no background, no professionsand no spoken character names (the closing cast credits them with theirfirst names only). They are just unusual stowaways trying to keepthemselves from being caught and taken to the brig. However, in thiscase, MONKEY BUSINESS has its full quota of belly-laughs. Nothingreally drags and nothing provided is unnecessary. And whatever scenesmay not be of importance or interest to the viewers, it passes by veryquickly. MONKEY BUSINESS, hailed as one of the top 100 comedies by the AmericanFilm Institute, has become a perennial favorite to many Marx Brothersenthusiasts. After many years being presented on commercial televisionon the afternoon or evening to after midnight hours, it becameavailable on video cassette through MCA Home Video in the 1980s, and tocable television on several channels, from the Comedy Channel shortlyprior to 1990, then to American Movie Classics (1991-1992), and, adecade later, on Turner Classic Movies (TCM premiere: December 17,2001). Regardless of its age, MONKEY BUSINESS, for all its silliness,continues to bring laughter to a new generation of movie loverswhenever shown, thanks to those funny men billed as The Marx Brothers.Because of them, no ocean voyage would ever be the same again, which iswhy no self respecting ship should ever set sail without them either.Bon Voyage. (***)
like ratio : 0.9583333333333334
interest ratio: 0.3333333333333333