The legendary true story of 19th century London\'s "Jack the Ripper" has beentold countless times in TV and film.  Here, the facts are augmented intomore of a character study and an observation of the perceptions andsuspicions from people when confronted by a person who is decidedly"different".  This remake of a silent Hitchcock film focuses on the titlecharacter Cregar, an unusual, detached man who takes rooms in an affluenthousehold at the same time that a deranged killer is carving up local"actresses" (1940\'s censorship disallowed the portrayal of what the victimswere in real life -- prostitutes.)  One ironic, but unlikely, twist is thatonce Cregar takes the rooms, it is discovered that a prominent local actress(Oberon) is living in the home as well!  Oberon and her aunt Allgood anduncle Hardwicke become increasingly suspicious of the new lodger as heslinks out late at night, burns certain possessions of his and gets sweatyand unnerved at the mere mention of actresses.  Is he The Ripper or does hehave some similarly-themed problem which will cause him to be thought of asThe Ripper even though he isn\'t?  This is basically the thrust of the tale(stunted occasionally by some amusingly awkward musical moments from Oberonand her voice-double.)  The fog machine was working overtime during thisfilm and it almost covers up the fact that this was filmed on a backlot. Still, there\'s enough atmosphere to give the movie some sense of the timeand place.  Oberon is stunning to behold in a parade of ornate gowns andhairstyles, her unique face lit well by the man she would soon marry and hergraceful manner at it\'s peak.  Sanders has little of interest to do as apolice inspector who finds time to try to woo her while the body count racksup.  As the aunt and uncle, Allgood (especially) and Hardwicke providedelightful, thoroughly solid performances.  The most memorable aspect of thefilm, however, is the startling performance of Cregar and the innovativeways in which he is filmed and lit.  (The camera setups, at various times,are leagues ahead of other films being done during this period.)  There isan eerie extra light on Cregar when he isn\'t in silhouette.  He gives such avivid, stark performance (at times literally breathing down the viewers\'necks!) that, once seen, he is unlikely to be forgotten.  Fortunately, at 84minutes, the film doesn\'t overstay its welcome and provides a nice bit ofcreepy entertainment.  Even at this length there are some slightlyunnecessary and dull interludes among the townsfolk, but for the most part,the film works.  Though the violence is, by now, so tame as to benonexistent, the menace of the killer is still effective and occasionallyvery creepy.  (Some modern slasher films like 1981\'s "The Fan" drew obviousinspiration from this one.)  Cregar, who died of a heart attack afterquickly shedding 100 pounds in order to change his image, is an actor whosescreen presence ran circles around many of his contemporaries.  That he diedso young (he was 28 years old in this film!) and before seeing his fullpotential realized is one of Hollywood\'s great losses. 
like ratio : 0.9130434782608695
interest ratio: 0.48936170212765956