It is nothing if not puzzling, that despite all the attention Mr.Ulmer's other work receives, "Her Sister's Secret," remains consignedto some no man's land--ignored, ignored, ignored...Very bewildering indeed, since, Mr. Ulmer is clearly working above hisusual constraints, as is evidenced by the fact that it doesn't looklike a PRC film at all! By some feat or other, a bit more coin wasdropped here and it shows.Working this time without his usual collaborators, (or should we sayculprits?) producer Leon Fromkess and art director Paul Palmentola)Ulmer achieves something completely unlike the pulp antics of "Monsoon"or "Delinguent Daughters,"--a posh women's picture in the Douglas Sirkmode--all velvet and satin and ball masques.Indeed, the film looks for all the world like one of Ross Hunter'searly black and white dramas for Universal--(before he ascended intoEastmancolor heaven)-such are the film's physical and auralaccoutrements, (among the latter note the use of a celestial choir inthe fadeout just as in 1959's "Imitation of Life").To avoid "spoilers" suffice it to say that the story hinges on a wellborn young miss who finds herself in trouble after an indiscretion witha furloughed soldier during Mardi Gras. Though Miss Coleman's charactermentions her extreme "shame," the picture avoids the moral implicationsof her dilemma in favor of the unavoidable emotional attachment shefeels toward her child. To the picture's credit it strongly emphasizes the permanent naturaland ethical link that maternity imposes, (this would be an excellentfilm for pro-abortionists to see.) That the principal players are Phillip Reed, soulfully beautiful NancyColeman, and tres chic Margaret Lindsay assures the audience of threevery good looking leads. In addition it offers veteran player HenryStephenson a good part preparatory to his trek to Albion in order tofilm David Lean's "Oliver Twist," (didn't Ulmer rub shoulders withinteresting people?)Though bereft of Eugene Shufftan's fabled expertise on this project,Mr. Ulmer was lucky to secure the services of Franz Planer, a superbcinematographer in his own right, who manages deftly smooth boommaneuvers amidst the moody settings (the work of art director EdwardJewell). This is most evident in the film's superb opening, in whichMr. Planer rides his camera through the flying confetti and contorted,gyrating and swaying movement of the masqued revelries of the MardiGras, (this film anticipates, on a smaller scale, the carnival sequencein "Saraband for Dead Lovers").The settings include the terraced New Orleans restaurant where the filmopens, Mr. Stephenson's private library, an Arizona Sanitorium, CentralPark and Miss Lindsay's swank Manhatten duplex apartment, which seemsto take some of its stylistic cues from Premingers "Laura," (all whiteon white satin with the requisite terrace.) And being a women's picture a nod must go to "Donn" who provided theMisses Coleman and Lindsay with a mouth watering wardrobe, which servesas a reminder at what a dear sartorial cost the cultural meltdown ofrecent decades has wrought--one won't find on screen elegance like thistoday. Why the milliner alone must have made a killing on this picture!And take a gander at that satin lined split sleeve number Miss Lindsaywears in her final scene.All told, this is a smoothly turned and consistently interestingtreatment of a perennial problem--and deserves a far higher place onthe list of Mr. Ulmer's credentials than "Jive Junction".
=============
like ratio : 0.9333333333333333
interest ratio: 1.25
moviename: Her Sister 's Secret
number of likes: 14
number of interests : 15