Okay, I'll admit that technically speaking, this film isn't what you'dexpect for a score of 8. After all, this was a very low-budgetproduction and occasionally it really shows it--though most of thetime, they do make the most of their limited resources. The film doesearn super-high marks, though, for its ability to entertain, as thereis one thrill after another after another--just like a Saturday morningmovie serial condensed into one great package. In fact, it isn't allthat surprising that just two years later they DID make a serialversion of the Chandu character and a couple more movies--though oddly,he was played by Bela Lugosi in them, while in CHANDU THE MAGICIAN, heactually played the evil villain!! Edmund Lowe stars here as Chandu--a Westerner who has "learned thepsychic powers of the East". In other words, he spent years with giftedHindu holy men and learned to use their great powers to control mens'minds. Using hypnosis, Chandu can make just about anyone do or seeanything!! This makes him one heck of an amazing super-hero. Some ofhis tricks involved making men think their guns had turned to snakes,the ability to make doubles of himself to lure away the bad guys andhis funny ability to mess with his man servant whenever he tries totake a drink!! Aside from comic heroes such as Mandrake, this is atruly unique character--and a very, very unique one for film. Theclosest I can think of are films such as THE COBRA WOMAN and ALI BABA,but they really aren't the same. Considering how exciting and fun thisfilm was, I really wished they had made more of them--especially sincethe writing was so "seat of your pants" good.In addition to these cool psychic powers, the film features a deathray, kidnappings and an evil cult of followers for Lugosi--what morecould you possibly want in an old-time action-suspense film?! This isreally great and exciting stuff--much better than the usual film forLugosi or Lowe--who both do an exceptional job in this film. Too badthey just don't make 'em like they used to.
=============
like ratio : 0.9473684210526315
interest ratio: 0.95
moviename: Chandu the Magician
number of likes: 18
number of interests : 19