This was the second to last film the famed director, Fellini, made andit was his most personal. Instead of being a traditional film, this ismuch more like having a personal visit with him as he shows you aroundCinecittà Studios in Rome. Sometimes he talks to the camera (or in manycases, the fictional Japanese crew interviewing him--a plot device torepresent the audience), sometimes you just watch somewhat randomscenes as they are shot and other times you watch Fellini and hisfriends as they reminisce--such as when Marcello Mastroianni pops bythe set and Fellini, impulsively, takes him on a road trip to see AnitaEkberg. While this all seems unscripted and at the spur of the moment,it was all staged for the film but it has a real home movie qualityabout it. At Ekberg's home, all of Fellini's guests view scenes from LADULCE VITA (starring Mastroianni and Ekberg) and there is a very strongnostalgic air about the party.The total effect of all these elements was a lot like climbing insideFellini's mind and it also gave a lot of amazing insights into the filmmaking process. Because of this it was a lot like Truffaut's DAY FORNIGHT, though a bit different because DAY FOR NIGHT stuck more to atraditional script (a movie about a movie being filmed) and seemed alot less frivolous and fun. Fellini's is more of a "warts and all" andappears to be more spontaneous and ad-libbed--though because of some ofthe grand sets and the visit to Ekberg's, it obviously was staged tolook spontaneous. My advice is to see this film and DAY FOR NIGHT. DAYFOR NIGHT is rated higher, but because of all the sentimentality ofINTERVISTA, I preferred it slightly.While I have never been a huge fan of Fellini, I have seen most of hisfilms and really enjoyed having some insights into his psyche. Most ofit came as no surprise (such as the use of phallic imagery--Fellini'ssexuality was never repressed in his films), but some was very sweetand charming. It was nice to see him as both director and actor--so whyis the film rated so poorly??!! By the way, when the film was made, Miss Ekberg was 56 years-old andMr. Mastroianni was 63. I was rather irritated with an IMDb review thatcomplained about her being "obese" and him being "wrinkled". This wascruel and shallow, as most women would die to look that ravishing at 56and most men would love to be a charming old rogue at 63! What do youexpect at that age? Hmm? To quote Ekberg in a recent interview, "I'mvery much bigger than I was, so what? It's not really fatness, it'sdevelopment." Bravo.PS--If you like this film, try watching Vincenzo Mollica's documentaryon the film that's included on the DVD for INTERVISTA. It does a nicejob of explaining some of the plot elements and features clips not onlyfrom this movie but several other Fellini films. My favorite part waslearning that Miss Ekberg's plunge into the Trevi fountain in LA DULCEVITA was done in February!!
=============
like ratio : 0.9285714285714286
interest ratio: 1.0769230769230769
moviename: Intervista
number of likes: 13
number of interests : 14