Three distinct and distant individuals\' lives intersect with the brutalkilling of one by another. The one-hour film only reveals the eventthat brings the three individuals together only after half the film isover. I have seen other segments of the "Dekalog" but this one struckme as the most sparse one in dialogue and yet most fascinating instructure.The film opens with a law student practicing a mock plea of defense fora man charged with murder. Obviously the same arguments must have beenrepeated by the man as a full-fledged lawyer but this is never shown onscreen (at least in the short 1-hr version of Dekalog 5). We are madeto imagine that this must have been the case. A cab driver who is amisanthrope, has two facets to his character: the good side feeds amangy dog, cleans his cab meticulously, picks up dirty rags thrown bypeople who lack civic sense, and remembers his wife while dying; thebad side frightens small poodles, refuses to give a ride to adrunk--probably worried that he will puke in the cab--and ogles atpretty girls. The repulsive protagonist who murders without mercy,drops stones from bridges on fast moving traffic, and pushes strangersinto urinals without any provocation, is also a person who can makeinnocent young girls laugh. Kieslowski\'s film and the script thuspresent the good and the bad side of two of the three main characters.Yet the film is not about capital punishment but more a treatise onkilling. The Fifth Commandment "Thou shalt not kill" is exploredtheologically--("Even God spared Cain...\'), sociologically thetenderness of brutes to children and poor forlorn dogs, andpsychologically (after effects of drunken night with a male friend thatled to the accidental death of his sister, whose photograph he carrieswith him). What makes ordinary persons turn into killers--this is neverfully explained but suggestions are legion.In Kieslowski\'s world there is a pattern where events and people areinterlinked in a cosmic sense (note the resemblance of clown to thekiller, as it hangs from the mirror in the cab). Kieslowski and theyoung idealist lawyer seem to ask us to look at the Commandmentliterally and figuratively--why do we kill? Are the people legallykilled truly bad? Is there a force beyond society (the drunken nightthat led to life of a girl) that makes us into abhorrent murderers?It would be missing the forest for the trees to discuss the twodetailed killings in the film--both without mercy. The film invites theviewer to contemplate why we are asked by God not to kill.I understand a longer full-length version of the film was made byKieslowski. But even this short 1-hr version is superb with its bleakand sparse script, intelligent editing, interesting cinematography andtop-notch direction that provides much more than the sum of its parts.This segment anticipates the more wholesome Dekalogs 6,7 and 8.
=============
like ratio : 0.8125
interest ratio: 0.9411764705882353
moviename: `` Dekalog '' Dekalog , piec ( 1989 )
number of likes: 13
number of interests : 16