Samuel Fuller lived long enough to realize that movie audiences fullyappreciated his innovative movies, and considered him a cinematic master. This was good, because all too frequently the tragedy of art careers is anunderappreciation in the artist\'s lifetime.  But after 1981 Fuller nevermade another film, and that is a tragedy.  Unlike Orson Welles rumors didnot suggest that Fuller was box-office poison, or a spend thrift, or anegomaniac.  But like Welles Fuller had a deskful of movie treatments andscripts he couldn\'t get the funding for.  A documentary made in the late1990s about Fuller showed his desire to make a film biography about hisfavorite novelist: Honore de Balzac.  Unfortunately it never got ontocelluloid.He made many historic films: mostly westerns, though he did do theunderappreciated PARK ROW (the only film I know dealing with theconstruction of the Statue of Liberty and Ottmar Merganthaler\'s linotypemachine and it\'s revolution on newspaper publishing).  But one of thewesterns is based on a 19th Century fraud that almost changed the face ofthe United States.  In the middle of the Gilded Age, James Addison Reavisused an elaborate (and sophisticated) fraud to try to convince the U.S.Government to recognize his wife\'s family claims to ownership (from oldSpanish land grants) to the territory of Arizona. The claim was that herancestors, the Peralta family of Spain and Mexico, were given the lands ofthe territory by the crown of Spain, in recognition of their services. Ittook nearly a decade of careful investigation to discover the forgery usedby Reavis (the inks he used on old documents were not made as they shouldhave been in the 18th Century). Pictures of the Peraltas (who never existed)turned out to have been purchased at a street fair in Mexico.  Instead ofinstalling his barony on the North American map, Reavis went toprison.Fuller turns the story into that of a basically good person who goes wrongtrying to make a big place for himself in society.  His Reavis does go toelaborate lengths to make the forgery as real as possible, including forgingthe necessary entries in ancient real estate books, and living for severalyears as a monk to do this work.  But he is changed by the simplicity of theyoung woman he picks as his wife and "Peralta" heir.  A decent woman, sheslowly wins his love by her own devotion to him - with or without theproperty.  Reavis also sees the more violent side of the "good citizens" ofArizona, who become vigilantes against him as they see his claims seem aboutto become recognized by the U.S. government.  Ironically he saves himselfwhen in a moment of disgust with these yahoos he explains that if they lynchhim the claim will never be disproved, because (even with the assistance ofthe government expert) only Reavis knows where he slippedup.Vincent Price, as Reavis, is a villain in that he is committing a massivefraud, but he proves he is more than a master of horror films.  Here hegives one of his quietest and most effective performances, as a man wholearns that happiness can be found more easily than by stealing billions ofdollars in acreage.  Ellen Drew is quite good as the young Mexican peon whosaves Price\'s soul by her devotion.  Vladimir Sokoloff and Beulah Bondi, asReavis\'s servants are also quite good.  If you can, I really recommend thisfilm - which is not as well known as it should be.
=============
like ratio : 0.8620689655172413
interest ratio: 0.9354838709677419
moviename: The Baron of Arizona
number of likes: 25
number of interests : 29