Of the seven films written by Jacques Prevert and directed by MarcelCarne I have now seen five - and I have the published screenplay of'Jenny' their initial collaboration and now the only one I have yet tosee. This is the kind of film that brings out the hybridologist inreviewers, the Marx Brothers Meet Mel Brooks type of Screamers and ithas to be said that the film does lend itself to that type of journo'strick. Of course any film written by Prevert and directed by Carne isgoing to be worth seeing whatever the story and whoever the cast. Interms of cast this is a doozy; Michel Simon, Francoise Rosay, LouisJouvet, Jean-Louis Barrault, Jean-Pierre Aumont, on the surface thecream of French cinema between the wars, but if we stop and look againwe realize that what we have here is a series of disparate actingstyles so the logical question is what type of story can possiblyaccommodate this bizarre melange. Answer: Precisely the sort of storyPrevert has supplied in which a group of top French actors aretransplanted to Edwardian London and given names like Archibald Soper,Irwin Molyneux, William Kramps and, wait for it, Billy, The Milkman. Dowe really need a plot after this? Well, in case the answer is yes howabout a hypocritical bishop (Jouvet) who gets his kicks denouncingdetective fiction (this was in its heyday in 1937, when the film wasmade, but hardly causing much of a stir in Edwardian England) whilsthis cousin (Simon) leads a double life as a timid gardener whomoonlights as a best-selling author of detective fiction. When Soperinvites himself to lunch at his cousin's London home, the lady of thehouse (Francoise Rosay) having antagonised the staff to the point oftheir departure, prepares the meal herself and then, on grounds oframpant snobbery, absents herself for the duration. From this seeminglyinnocuous move Soper convinces himself that Molyneux has murdered hiswife and the scene is set for things to spin in ever widening circles.Still a huge hit in France and shown regularly on TV it has never, tomy knowledge, played in England. Seeing it for the first time in 2004 Iwas completely captivated and drawn into its spiralling plot. 9/10
=============
like ratio : 1.0
interest ratio: 1.0
moviename: Bizarre , Bizarre
number of likes: 13
number of interests : 13