The Singing Marine is great example of the kind of film Dick Powell wastrying hard to get out of doing. It's entertaining and charming in itsway, but also has its moments of downright silliness.Powell knew very well that his career in film would never last if hecontinued doing parts like these. He wanted to do serious dramaticstuff and finally got his chance seven years later from RKO in MurderMy Sweet.On furlough from the Marines on a lark Powell enters an amateur hourtalent contest and wins. One of the losers is Doris Weston and she andPowell are taken with each other. Hugh Herbert signs Powell up to singon the radio and his career as The Singing Marine is off and running.Now here's where it gets a bit sticky for me. Hugh Herbert is his usualwackadoodle self in The Singing Marine and why anyone in his right mindwould hire him as a business manager is beyond my power ofunderstanding. Also why Powell would forget about that little contract he signed withthe Marine Corps is absolutely off the radar of my grey cells. Thatidiot Herbert actually thinks he's going to buy Powell out of hisenlistment.Yet these were more innocent times and I think if Dick Powell werealive today he'd appreciate The Singing Marine for the entertainment itis.He got some good songs to sing from two teams of songwriters, HarryWarren and Al Dubin and Harold Arlen and Johnny Mercer. Cause My BabySays It's So was the hit from this film and the Song of the Marinesenjoyed some popularity. It was never going to take the place of Fromthe Halls of Montezuma in Marine Corps Annals.Supporting Powell besides Hugh Herbert were Guinn Williams, AllenJenkins, Lee Dixon, and as Ma Marine, Jane Darwell. That's right wehave a character named Ma Marine. Jane is actually good in the role,she's a kind of den mother to the Marines stationed in Shanghai. Herfinancial problems are the crux of the story for the last 45 minutes.Despite some of the nonsense, The Singing Marine is good entertainmentwith Dick Powell in real good voice.
=============
like ratio : 0.8461538461538461
interest ratio: 2.1666666666666665
moviename: The Singing Marine
number of likes: 11
number of interests : 13