I'M NO ANGEL (Paramount, 1933), directed by Wesley Ruggles, Mae West'ssecond starring feature, with the full of story, screenplay and ALLdialog credited by Mae West, as listed in the opening titlessuper-imposed from an overview of a circus, according to the title,might have been a comedy fantasy centering upon a fallen angel, but asthe story goes, it's about a freewheeling woman's rise from circus tentto Park Avenue penthouse.The story centers around Tira (Mae West), a free-spirited woman workingas a midway dancer in Big Bill Barton's (Edward Arnold) low classcarnival. She is loved by Big Bill, but has a casual lovers, or inanother sense of the word, acquaintances with the male population, onebeing "Slick" Wiley (Ralf Harolde), a pickpocket. Tira keeps a hotelroom in town where she entertains gentlemen friends. One of her latestpickups is Ernest Brown (William B. Davidson), better known as "TheChump," five times married and with no morals. When Slick enters thescene to make a pinch, posing as Tira's husband, the angry Browndecides to leave and expose the two. Before he can get away, he isknocked unconscious by Slick. Mistaking him for dead, Tira and Slickmake their getaway, leaving his body in the hallway. After Brownrecovers, he discovers he's been robbed. Along with the police, Brownlocates Slick at the sideshow and has him arrested. To clear herself,Tira hires Benny Pinkowitz (Gregory Ratoff), a prominent New York Cityattorney, to handle her pending trial. To obtain the loan, Tira agreesto appear as Bill's latest attraction, the star of a lion taming act,climaxed by putting her head into the mouth of the king of beasts.Because of her renewed success, with the act now playing at MadisonSquare Garden, Tira becomes the talk of the town. Entering the socialscene following her encounter with Kirk Lawrence (Kent Taylor), whohappens to be engaged to the jealous Alicia Hatton (Gertrude Michael),his relationship with Tira starts to ruin the family name. Jack Clayton(Cary Grant), Kirk's cousin, decides to pay Tira a visit and buy heroff. Instead acquires this lovely product for himself. All goes welluntil Big Bill hires Slick, recently released from jail, to break uptheir relationship by posing as Tira's husband dressed in nothing but abathrobe. Clayton calls off the wedding, leading to a breach of promisesuit by Tira.Songs credited by Gladys DuBois, Ben Ellison and Harvey Brooks,include: "They Call Me Sister Honky Tonk," "No One Loves Me Like ThatDallas Man," "I Found a New Way to Go to Town," "I Want You, Need You,"and "I'm No Angel" (all sung by Mae West). The title song, sung byWest, is heard during the closing casting credits, and before the fadeout, has the final say with, "I'm No Angel ... Believe ME!" Following the success to SHE DONE HIM WRONG, I'M NO ANGEL, whichre-teams West with Grant for the second and final time, proved to be animprovement over its predecessor, and to many Mae West fans, her bestmovie, and it's easy to see why. The courtroom scene where Tira (West)acts as her own attorney in the breach of promise suit, questioning themen in her past and present, and the male jurors who want to becomepart of her future, is priceless. With the members of the jury seenlaughing out loud during Tira's defense sure had it's theater audiencesdoing the same thing back in 1933. During the course of West's longestmovie, 86 minutes, I'M NO ANGEL is a full of memorable one-liners("When I'm good, I'm very good. When I'm bad, I'm better," "Beulah,peal me a grape," "It's not the men in my life, but the life in mymen," plus many more), and suggestive scenes leading only to theimagination of its viewers. I'M NO ANGEL is the movie where sheintroduced her most famous line, "Come up and see me some time,"recited after her courtroom battle while on the telephone talking tothe (unseen) Juror # 4. This line was spoken to Cary Grant, here, andin SHE DONE HIM WRONG, but each time in different ways. In spite ofGrant's name billed second in the cast, his character appears very lateinto the story.I'M NO ANGEL also consists of Mae West's personal traits. For instance,it's been written that West, born under the sign of Leo (month ofAugust, a "hot" month) usually visited her astrologer for advice andnever went through the day without reading her horoscope. Her characterof Tira does just that, having her fortune told by the Rajah (Nigel DeBrulier), who, while looking into the crystal ball, tells her he sees aman in her life. The surprised Tira responds, "Only ONE!" Later on inthe story, one of her maids tells says she's a "one man woman." Shequickly quips, "Yeah, one man at a time."I'M NO ANGEL was thankfully produced before the production code wentinto effect, thus making this a "pre-code" comedy that has stood thetest of time. It had become one of many Mae West/Paramount comedies ofthe 1930s to be distributed on video cassette in 1992. to commemorateWest's centennial birth (1892). I'M NO ANGEL, along with SHE DONE HIMWRONG, became the movie package acquired by Turner Classic Movies, withI'M NO ANGEL having made its premiere on that station on January 6,2001. For anybody who has never seen a Mae West comedy, especially hertwo prime comedies released 1933, I'M NO ANGEL should make a goodintroduction, and a suitable companion piece with SHE DONE HIM WRONG,both co-starring the only actor to appear opposite West on screen morethan once. His name, of course, being Cary Grant. (**1/2)
=============
like ratio : 0.896551724137931
interest ratio: 0.9354838709677419
moviename: I 'm No Angel
number of likes: 26
number of interests : 29