I just saw "Last of the Mohicans." I didn't expect much. I had seenother adaptations: the 1936 George B. Seitz movie and the Michael Mannremake of 1992. To me they all seem to lack the spirit of what isadmittedly a rambling novel whose provocative subject matter is onlypartially realized. Cooper's problem was execution; he didn'tunderstand how severely his story was compromised by unnecessarycharacters, needless plot devices, and ceaseless talk. Latter dayfilm-makers steered around Cooper's problem by ignoring him andcreating a story of their own, but in doing so they lost what was finein his work.Director Maurice Tourneur does not ignore Cooper, although he does cutthrough the crap. In a non-talking film the characters can't yap on theway they do in Cooper's fiction. Hawkeye's role is reduced. He has fewscenes and is not the romantic lead Randolph Scott and Daniel Day Lewiswould be in later adaptations. He is the homely, awkward, asexualwoodsman Cooper describes. Tourneur chooses, rather, to focus directlyon the tragic romance at the novel's core, between British colonialCora Munro and Mohican hunk Uncas. He thereby rescues the film frombecoming another "Birth of a Nation" with Wallace Beery's Maguastanding in for Griffith's black-faced white men who try to rape whitewomen.Tourneur's technique is impressive. Camera perspective, lighting, andediting are well in advance of what was being done in 1920. The actionon the Eastman print I saw seems a little fast. I'm not sure if it runsat the correct projection speed. Tourneur obviously under-cranked hiscamera during action sequences to give actors and extras the appearanceof furious motion. These are only small criticisms, however.As in all his films Tourneur reined in the actors' exaggerated facialexpressions and theatrical gestures, which is perhaps why there are somany title cards explaining the actors' motivations. Barbara Bedford isrestrained and natural as Cora, some might argue too restrained to bethe passionate, dark-haired heroine of Cooper's novel. But Tourneurlets Bedford's quiet beauty act as a veneer masking a volatile nature.Her defiance of social and feminine conventions – showing attractionfor a Native warrior, and impulsively sacrificing herself to protecther sister in the Indian town – affects us all the more because of herstillness. In Garbo such stillness was praised as mystique. So perhapsit is no coincidence that Tourneur's protégé Clarence Brown, whofinished this film when Tourneur was injured, guided Garbo's earlycareer beginning with "Flesh and the Devil" in 1926.
=============
like ratio : 1.0
interest ratio: 0.6818181818181818
moviename: The Last of the Mohicans
number of likes: 15
number of interests : 15