Gary Merrill is the stranger making the phone calls in "Phone Call froma Stranger," a 1952 film directed by Jean Negulesco and also starringShelley Winters, Keenan Wynn, Michael Rennie, Beatrice Straight, CraigStevens and Bette Davis. Unable to forgive his wife for an affair,David Trask gets on a plane, where, due to the plane being late and anunexpected stopover because of bad weather, he becomes friendly withthree passengers: a performer (Winters), a salesman (Wynn) and analcoholic attorney (Rennie) and hears their stories. The salesman seemsa happy man with a knockout for a wife; the performer has a horridmother-in-law, a former vaudeville star with whom she competes, but sheloves her husband; and the attorney has resolved to go to the DA andadmit responsibility for an accident that happened a few years earlierwhich has destroyed his marriage. When the plane crashes, Trask is theonly survivor of the four. He visits each of the victims' families topay his condolences and possibly put some matters right. Then he learnsfrom one of the family members the importance of putting his own lifeback together.This isn't a particularly big-budget film - it's in black and white;some of these actors were under contract to Fox; others are not hugenames with the exception of Davis. Her role is short but worth theentire film, though all the performances are very good and the storiesheartfelt. The attorney's family story is heavy drama, with the sonbelieving his mother drove his father away. The performer's familystory is the comic relief as the mother-in-law right out of hell getsher comeuppance. And the tear-jerker is the scene with the salesman'swife. Davis is often criticized for being overblown and mannered, andyet she was always capable of giving a restrained performance as shedoes here and also did in "All This and Heaven Too" and "Watch on theRhine." There are other treats as well. Shelley Winters is pretty andvivacious in a wonderful role for her, Keenan Wynn is excellent as theloud salesman, and as the attorney, Rennie is an appropriately sad andreflective figure. Gary Merrill is very likable as Trask. Though henever really made it to big star status, he was a dependable actor,very handsome and masculine. Of course he and Davis had sparks in "AllAbout Eve" - so much so that they got married in real life - andthere's a nice chemistry between them here as well. It's nice to seethem when they were happy together. They also did a very good Britishfilm together, "Another Man's Poison." My only complaint is the attimes overpowering musical score.Very entertaining and highly recommended, especially for Davis fans.
=============
like ratio : 0.9583333333333334
interest ratio: 0.631578947368421
moviename: Phone Call from a Stranger
number of likes: 23
number of interests : 24