THE MERCHANT OF FOUR SEASONS was Rainer Werner Fassbinder's first shotat mainstream acceptance. In a turbulent career of just fifteen years,he managed to create an astounding body of work in film and theater,both as a performer and a creative producer, actor, and director.Although this movie might not appeal to many viewers, the film has muchto offer. The storyline is fairly straightforward. A man is ostracizedfrom his upper middle class family due to emotional and economicproblems, and proves unable to control his downward spiral. THEMERCHANT OF FOUR SEASONS is shot with a slavish devotion to elegantdetail, and each set is very carefully designed and constructed. Everyobject on set seems painstakingly arranged so as to provoke layers ofemotional texture. Many religious paintings and icons decorate thewalls of the various rooms and seem to speak to Hans's desperate questfor spiritual meaning or direction in his life. Much thought was givento how lighting and color were employed to contrast and enhance thedrama. Several times during the film, I froze the frame to marvel atthe beauty of the shot's composition. I streamed this film, and theprint was nearly flawless and second to none. Fassbinder employs hisactors in an almost vehement "Anti-Natural' style. He does everythingpossible to prevent the actors from reacting in a normal or colloquialmanner, and this creates a rather stilted effect. However, by doing so,he injects an almost 'hyper-reality' to the narrative. Rather than thepresentation of a mundane melodrama, the actors almost militant lack ofaffectation forces the viewer to confront the film in a differentmanner. Fassbinder's film intentionally prevents the viewer from easilyconnecting with the characters' trials and tribulations. You areconstantly on the outside, looking in. This will be a disconcertingexperience for many, but I found it to be a unique and satisfyingartistic adventure.
=============
like ratio : 0.8947368421052632
interest ratio: 1.0
moviename: The Merchant of Four Seasons
number of likes: 17
number of interests : 19