I just found the entire 3 DVD set at Wal-Mart in the bargain bin for$5.50, so I thought I would take another look. Total of 13 hours towatch it all (26 episodes). I was born in 1948 and saw most of them onTV in the sixties. Many independent stations repeated them for manyyears.Better than I expected actually, time has been kind to the obvioussincerity of it's creators, and to the obvious gratitude and respectthey give to all the Allied fighting men and women. More abstract andarty than a straight forward documentary, but very truthful in it'sdepiction of the causes and final results of WWII. That war was greatlydependent on sea transportation, and the final victory was dependent onwho achieved the final mastery of the world's oceans. The Allies werethe ones who were able to do it.Interesting too, to see how they try to strike a balance between bigevents, and the individual soldiers and sailors that made them happen.The score is impressive, if a bit too much by today's standards. I readsomewhere that Robert Russell Bennett contributed just as much asRichard Rodgers to final score. I imagine that Rodgers provided all themajor themes, and it was up to Bennett to fit them to the images. Greatjob!Should be seen by every ruler, or potential ruler. A warning to tyrantsthat wars are eventually won by ideals, determination, and the suppliesto back them up. Logistics: their quality and delivery will determinethe eventual victors. The Allies outproduced and surpassed the materialquality of the Axis, attacked their very source in the process, andinsured their eventual defeat.Sorry to see that the producer, Henry Salomon, lived a very short life.IMDb's facts were rather skimpy, I have to find out more about him. Hedid a few more outstanding documentaries before his early death. Mighthave more to say at a later timeTrivia: I had all 3 LP records made of the background music, prettygood overall. Unfortunately, the producers decided to add sound effectsto the last one, relegating immediately to just novelty status, ratherthan for serious music listening. Too bad too, because it containedsome interesting but more minor themes in the series. Silly stuff like16 inch guns firing, torpedoes being fired, bulldozers, planes...justfor kids mainly.RSGRE
=============
like ratio : 1.0
interest ratio: 0.6842105263157895
moviename: `` Victory at Sea ''
number of likes: 13
number of interests : 13