This ghastly Universal musical released in August 1933 is their answerto Warner's Busby Berkeley blockbusters. Consider this release pattern;from WB: Jan '33 42nd St; May 33 Gold Diggers '33; in August comesthis: Universal's copy: MOONLIGHT AND PRETZELS then Sept 33 WB'sFOOTLIGHT PARADE. In M&P dance director Bobby Connolly has slavishlyand clumsily copied two of the best Busby Berkeley numbers from Golddiggers of 33: their "Pettin In The Park" becomes "Get Up And Go ToWork" here, and their "Remember My Forgotten Man" becomes here "DustyShoes". In the midst of all this is basically unattractive actors withbad teeth staring and smiling at each other in between muttering 'Geethat's swell'. Dim small town gal Sally loves rubber faced songpluggerGeorge who makes good on Broadway. Boring cross eyed Sally goes to NYand gets into his show in an attempt to make him come home and dronewith her in dusty-ville. However, sassy Elsie played by terrificLillian Miles who looks a lot like Alice Faye or Ginger Rogers sings upa storm and assists getting the lame show refinanced by Leo Carillo,the Spanish actor who here plays a Greek and a-talks-a-lika-dat.Stomping dance numbers with unrehearsed chorines in out of steproutines and yelling lyrics are the topper to this mash of songsromance and 1933 drama. I was so perplexed by the title and whatrelevance it had to do with anything or anyone or any part of any showever, except the bit where for no reason they dressed up in Tyroleanalpine outfits and yelled Moonlight And Pretzels ! at each other whileswilling beer and munching on hot dogs. It is all so awful as to bemesmerizing. In fact so compelling I forgot what it was about andsimply stared in disbelief. At one stage Elsie and George sit under apaper moon and identify it so but do not sing "it's only a paper moon"like they are about to but don't. All you can focus upon is howterrible their teeth are. They don not seem to be clean or fit in theirmouths. Somehow Sally has a bent head. She is supposed to be the RubyKeeler gal but here looks like Ruby after a stroke instead. Her eyes donot close at the same time. George is supposed to look like Dick Powellbut actually could be mistaken for George Formby... or worse, KennyBaker in fat-face makeup. . MOONLIGHT AND PRETZELS is a depression eraknockoff of Warner snazziness and here looks like a budget suburbanmusical society version of 42nd St. The song where the husband and wifeget up to go to work has a mad interlude where chorus girls on a satinbed-clock attempt some BB kaleidoscope.... in another number filmed infront of a curtain (!) 25 out of step chorines simply wave their armsabout as they march back and forth and get mangled in some halffigure-eight. It is so nutty as to be with 100 grimaces by the 99minute mark. I of course loved it. Oh, and there's even dashounds. Onleashes.
like ratio : 0.1111111111111111
interest ratio: 1.125