Bucking Broadway (1917)*** (out of 4) Considered lost for many decades, a print of this film would eventuallyshow up in a French vault and making it one of the earliest films byJohn Ford to survive. In the film Harry Carey plays Cheyenne Harry, asimple cowhand who asks the woman (Molly Malone) he loves to marry him.She says yes but a few days later a city man (Vester Pegg) comes totown and steals her heart with a bunch of lies. She runs off to NYCwith him before learning what a jerk is so it's up to Harry to show upand save the day. At just 52-minutes there's quite a bit wrong withthis film including the middle sections that pretty much bring thething to a complete halt. The scenes involving the city man wooing thegirl were pretty bland and boring in my opinion and I think the scenewith all the cowboys crying was pretty over dramatic as well. Outsidethose scenes this is a pretty good little Western that has the perfectmix of action and comedy. The scenery early on is downrightbreathtaking as Ford clearly showed his ability even at an early age topick beautiful locations and do them great justice on the screen. Youcan't help but want to pause the film just so you can admire some ofthe terrific location shots here. Another major plus is some rathernice bits a comedy that are added in the second part of the film whenthe cowboy heads to NYC and doesn't understand too much about the city.It's even funnier when his friends show up and start a major fight withsome of the city folks there. Carey was one of the biggest Westernstars out there and it's pretty easy to see why. He's got that certainlook that the best of the best had in this era and he's also quitebelievable in the tougher spots. You can't help but believe he's goingto beat the crap out of anyone who gets in his way and that's always aplus. Malone is pretty good in her role as well but the character is sobland that you'd have to wonder why the cowboy would even bother goingafter her. Pegg is a delight as the city guy and L.M. Wells is good asthe girl's father. Again, at just 52-minutes you'd wish that thereweren't any slow spots but in the end this is a pretty solid littlefilm that fans of Ford or just silent buffs will want to check out.
like ratio : 0.3333333333333333
interest ratio: 0.3333333333333333