The Runaway Bride (1930)* 1/2 (out of 4) Early talkie has Mary Gray (Mary Astor) eloping with Richard Mercer(David Newell) but as the two are looking over their new apartment sherealizes that she's made a horrible mistake. Richard locks her up inthe apartment and leaves her when later a detective comes pounding onthe door. He finally gets in and for some reason at the same time acriminal climbs into the window and kills him. Fearing what to do, Marygives the maid some cash in exchange for an employment card where Marygoes to hide as a cook for a rich man (Lloyd Hughes) but soon gangsterscome after her.THE RUNAWAY BRIDE is a really, really awful movie that is so incrediblybad that you can't help but be caught up in how bad it is. If you're afan of these early talkies then you already know that more times thannot the director and cast members were more concerned about the voicesgetting recorded than anything else. That's certainly the case herebecause there's absolutely no style to mention and it's clear thatdirector Donald Crisp was just filming scenes without putting too muchlogical sense into them. As you can tell from my plot description, the story is about as stupidas you can get and I only revealed half of it! The first ten minutes ofthis movie are downright insane as one illogical thing after anotherhappens. For starters, why does Mary lie to the detective when he comesto the door? Why does she really need to run? What did she see in thisguy to begin with? Why are the gangsters so stupid? There are so manylogical issues with this movie that you can't help but think theyweren't working off of a screenplay and if this was from an actualscreenplay, you've gotta wonder what powder was going around RKO at thetime. The story is so insane that it actually keeps you glued to thescreen just so you can see how much worse it gets.Astor, as you'd expect, is good in her role but you somewhat see herstruggling to make anything out of the character because she hasnothing to work with. Hughes is good in his role as is Paul Hurst asthe cop trying to figure everything out. Sadly, the actors just can'tovercome this horrid screenplay and in the end THE RUNAWAY BRIDE reallyis one of the worst films from this period.
like ratio : 0.0
interest ratio: 0.3333333333333333