Back in the early 20th century, D.W. Griffith was an innovativefilmmaker. He managed to tell wonderful stories and was wildly popularthrough the 1910s. However, as the years passed, Griffith went frombeing an innovator to being very old fashioned and stodgy. It wasn'tthat his films had changed so much as times had changed and he hadn'tkept up with them. This is strongly evident with his "A Romance ofHappy Valley"—a film which worked in 1919 when it debuted but whichwould just seem hokey into the 1920s. This is because the film isextremely moralistic and the subtitles often come off as preachyhomilies than anything else.The story is one close to Griffith's heart. After all, like thecharacters in the story, he grew up in rural Kentucky and he idealizedits simple way of life. Oddly, however, the film decries the evils ofmoving to the big city—something Griffith himself did when he packed upand moved to Los Angeles. While the city was hardly a metropolis at thetime, compared to his native Kentucky, it was practically sin city! Thestory is about a country boy named Johnny. After hearing a New Yorkertalk about how wonderful the big city is, Johnny is determined to gothere and make his fortune. The problems are that Jennie (Lillian Gish)is in love with him and his parents have worked hard on the farm inorder to pass it down to him. Regardless, he eventually does go to NewYork and soon learns about the drudgeries of city life. And, while hepromised to return in one year, one year soon stretches to eight!What's to become of Jennie and Johnny's farm? If you could re-write theheavy-handed intertitle cards (which sound more like the teachings ofNorman Vincent Peale than those of a filmmaker), didn't use white folkspainted black* as well as NOT made all the references to Judas Iscariotfor one of the characters, the film would have worked a lot better.After all, the ending is very creative and the cinematography waslovely. Worth seeing but is extremely old fashioned and is not amongGriffith's better work. And, if you've seen other films like Griffith's"Home, Sweet Home" you'll see that the themes in "A Romance of HappyValley" are often repeated in his work.*After watching this film and other Griffith films (especially "Birthof a Nation"), I can only conclude that Griffith must have really hatedblack people. Again and again, instead of hiring black actors, heusually just had white guys paint themselves with burnt cork to playblack parts. An enlightened guy he wasn't—and may help explain why suchan important early filmmaker is all but forgotten today.
like ratio : 0.0
interest ratio: 0.2857142857142857