During her tenure as 'America's Sweetheart', Mary Pickford made a lotof very similar films. Again and again, Mary played young girls andteenagers--even though she was clearly a woman in her 30s or 40s.America and the world loved it and didn't seem to mind. However, ifyou've seen as many of her films as I have, there is definitely acertain sameness about these performances. Again and again, she playeda plucky, decent, adorable and slightly mischievous girl--in such filmsas "Daddy Long Legs", "Sparrows", "Pollyanna" and many others. Igenerally like these performances despite the sameness and this wastrue with all her fans. However, in the case of "Rebecca of SunnybrookFarm", she plays a similar sort of creature but the film is definitelynot up to her usually high standards. Why? Mostly because the film is,at times, practically plot less. The film begins with Rebecca (Pickford playing someone about age 14)going to live with her two elderly aunts. It seems that Rebecca'sfamily is having financial problems and the aunts have offered to takeone of the children in and adopt them--and the one turns out to beRebecca. What follows is no real consistent theme--just a variety ofincidents. Some involve Rebecca fighting with some stuck up girls atschool, some with her attempts to help a local poor family and a veryfew involve Rebecca and her aunts. However, there really isn't much ofa theme or purpose to all this. SOME attempt is made with theintroduction of the Mr. Ladd character, but this is also veryunder-developed and a bit creepy. See the film and you'll understandabout the whole 'creepy' angle. Overall, a film that left mesurprisingly cold considering that I like Pickford's films...just notthis one. Now I am not saying it's bad--just not nearly as good as hertypical 'little girl' film.By the way, if you want something other than these sorts of portrayalsby Pickford, try finding a copy of "My Best Girl"-- probably her bestfilm and one of the great silents.
like ratio : 0.0
interest ratio: 0.125