Secret Game, The (1917) ** 1/2 (out of 4) Entertaining WW1 propaganda about a Japanese secret service agent(Sessue Hayakawa) who is trying to track down a German (Charles Ogle)who is pretending to be an American and sending back info to his homecountry. The agent soon finds a young woman (Florence Vidor) who isunknowingly friends with the spy and needs her to help bring him down.This film runs a very quick 67-minutes and I think you'll enjoy thefilm a lot more if your DVD player shuts down after one hour. Thereason I say this is that we've got a fairly good spy flick when out ofno where it turns into some over-the-top melodrama that includes a fewtwists in the story that are downright silly, stupid and ratherinsulting if you really think about it. Even for 1917 I'm not sure whythe screenwriters felt they needed to throw these twists in at the endbut they don't work and they really hurt what the film had going forit. I think some more flaws include how stupid the majority of theAmericans are in this film even when it's obvious what the bad guys aredoing. I'm guessing you could argue this was DeMille's way of tellingpeople to keep their eyes open and not disregard the obvious but thefilm doesn't play it like this. I think the best thing the film hasgoing for it is the very impressive cast with Hayakawa leading the way.During this period he was without question one of the most popularstars out there thanks in large part to films like Cecil B. DeMille'sTHE CHEAT but once again he turns in a very strong performance even ifhis character is the main one effected by the ending. Vidor also does anice job as the American girl not knowing how much danger she's in andwe have Jack Holt adding some fun as another agent. Raymond Hatton hasa brief role and Ogle, best remembered today for his 1910 FRANKENSTEIN,is effective as well. The "other" DeMille does a pretty good job withhis direction but the screenplay really messes things up for everyone.The brother Cecil served as "Director General" but it's a shame hedidn't do something with the ending.
like ratio : 0.0
interest ratio: 0.14285714285714285