What is the quintessence of a film-noir? A good answer is: an evilstrong woman that manipulates a weak, although basically decent, man,involving him in a crazy love, doomed to a tragic ending. Then we cansafely state that "Deadly is the Female" is a perfect instance offilm-noir. The movie has outstanding merits. The cinematography, and especiallythe camera-work are excellent, and comparable to the best achievementsin the film-noir genre. Justly celebrated are the scenes filmed withthe camera inside the car, like that of the bank shot in Hampton, atrue cinematic gem. John Dall and Peggy Cummins, in the roles of thedoomed lovers Bart and Annie Laurie, make a great job. The story startsslowly (a minor drawback), but as soon as the two lovers cross theborder of legality, the movie acquires a quick, exciting and ruthlesspace and presents a powerful finale. The psychology of Bart and Annie Laurie is studied with care. AnnieLaurie is a systematic liar. With Bart she always looks sweet, deeplyin love, even subdued to her man. To justify her shootings and murders,she always whines with Bart that she had lost her nerves, that she wasscared. But when Bart is not present, the viewer gets from her bodylanguage and the cruel expression of her eyes that she just loves tokill. Great job by Peggy Cummins. So does Laurie just make use of Bart for her dirty purposes, to satisfyher own depravity? Not at all. Oddly enough, in another famous scene wesee that Laurie really loves Bart with all her heart. Only, she is badand cruel, that's her inner core. And is Bart so stupid and bewitchednot to realize that Laurie is going to ruin him? No, he knows it, andhe deeply suffers, but ultimately he doesn't care. Only Laurie counts.Desperately crazy love... how fascinating! (at least in a film-noir). The script offers several memorable lines, and the many subtleties giverealism to the story. For instance, Bart and Laurie are notprofessional criminals, and they show it when they carelessly spend"hot" money, which will cost them dearly. "Deadly is the Female" is an excellent film, a relevant nugget in thefilm-noir gold mine. Highly recommended.
=============
like ratio : 0.9
interest ratio: 0.5208333333333334
moviename: Deadly Is the Female
number of likes: 45
number of interests : 50