At the time, such an idea of having the heroes being the criminals wasun-heard of, but Joseph H. Lewis's film deservedly has its claim ofbeing the little B-movie that could (forgive the mechanical analogy) byinspiring the French new-wave and other films like Bonnie & Clyde. Theidea of having a tragic love story pitted in the middle of noir facadewas also seen in the equally powerful low-budget They Live by Night.But while Nicholas Ray's film is more impressive on its emotionalstakes, Gun Crazy rakes up points for some of its technicalachievements. The style implemented by Lewis and DP Russel Harlan (alsoresponsible for the great photography in Red River) adds excitement tothe more suspenseful, even violent scenes, and adds some sentiment tothe softer ones involving the couple. And I love the scenes where youngBart can't seem to put away his fascination with guns.Bart (John Dall) starts off as a boy, and in some of these early scenes(some of the best in the film), we see how he is changed by anunfortunate act, and then the story skips ahead suddenly. Now Bart isan adult, out of the army, and gets re-introduced to guns once he meetshis soon-to-be love and partner in crime, Annie, played by PeggyCummins. From there, after getting married and needing (or ratherwanting) money, they start robbing banks across country, but soon tomeet their demise. But more than anything, the film's focus isn't onewhere 'crime doesn't pay' or some kind of typical, of-the-periodnonsense. Like the Asphalt Jungle, we're given these conflicted,emotional beings who may meet their own ends with each other before thelaw. And in the film-noir tradition, it's the woman here who will actas a main catalyst for the end of them. It's psychological side ofdanger, pathological lies, and the pattern of a downward spiral inhaving to commit violent acts (even un-intentionally), becomes whatreally pulls in the viewer into the picture, aside from the more loose,on-location 'real' style and interesting camera-work. Under more 'B-movie' conditions, Lewis sneaks in plenty of chances tolook past some of the more cardboard cut-out forms the characters couldhave been. The acting by the leads is also very good, the script mostlyby Dalton Trumbo is one of his best, and both understand how onereflects the other. Cummins is perfect in her part, even if Dall isn'tquite as much a stand-out (though, of course, he's the sap to her morewicked side). Also out of the script comes cool lines like the onelisted in the summary. It's a notch above many other B-noirs of theperiod, and should be seen by most serious fans of the 'mood' that camein noir films. A bit cynical, fatalistic to be sure, but it's smarttoo.
like ratio : 0.9333333333333333
interest ratio: 0.3125