I was pleased to see that more than a few folks here on IMDb knew whoMignon G. Eberhart was. "Mystery House" was based on one of Eberhart's'Nurse Keate' stories. In a nutshell, these stories are all murdermysteries, all use a medical pretext as a plot springboard, and allfeature a hospital nurse, Miss Keate, plus a detective named LanceO'Leary (Dick Purcell, in this outing). Ann Sheridan was the only actress to portray Nurse Keate more thanonce; --her other showing was in "The Patient in Room 18" --a weakerentry, which starred Patric Knowles as Detective O'Leary. The weakestKeate has to be Marguerite Churchill, who was called 'Nurse Keating' in"Murder by an Aristocrat." As good as Ann Sheridan was as Nurse Keate, she was easily bested byAline McMahon's turn as the sleuthing nurse in the Warners' Eberhartstory, "While the Patient Slept." Even though Eberhart's charactersappeared in several films, it would probably be inaccurate to describethese films as a "series." In "While the Patient Slept," Guy Kibbee played the oldest O'Leary ofthem all, --however, he filled the part with character and gusto,--traits that both Dick Purcell and Patric Knowles lacked.Most of those who commented here, appreciated the film's supportingcast, but largely didn't know who any of them were. I also liked thesupporting cast, and think it's worth mentioning some of those actorshere.---1)-William Hopper, who would later become known for his 9-year stint asPaul Drake, in the Perry Mason TV series on CBS. 2)-Anne Nagel, a beautiful actress who never rose above B-movie roles(such as this one). She appeared in films such as "The Mad Doctor ofMarket Street" and "Murder in the Music Hall.". Nagel also had a PerryMason connection, although not to the TV series. She appeared as JaniceAlma Bromley (the "fake Janice") in the Mason film, "The Case of theStuttering Bishop." 3)-Ben Welden: A "tough guy" in hundreds of films and early TV shows,Welden specialized in playing hoods, --often as comic relief. In"Mystery House," it's Welden's toupee that figures in the plot. Asteady worker, Welden had parts in at least 18 films in 1938 alone, theyear of "Mystery House." Some of his 1938 output included: "Smashingthe Rackets" "Crime Ring" "The Saint in New York" and "Time Out forMurder." In early television, Welden racked up multiple appearances inprograms such as "Space Patrol" "The Lone Ranger" and "The Adventuresof Superman." 4)-Dennie Moore, --a marvelous supporting actress, who's Jersey accentkept her typecast in films. She was often cast as a maid, or ashop-girl, or as a 'comic sidekick' to the heroine. Moore is bestremembered for her brief (though, pivotal) role as Olga the manicurist,who "spills the beans" to Norma Shearer's character in the 1939blockbuster film, "The Women." 5)-Elspeth Dudgeon, the elderly actress who played the wheelchair-boundaunt in "Mystery House" was a true wonder to behold. Though often seenin very small parts, where folks cannot remember her name, many viewersmarveled at her role as Ernest Thesiger's father, the bedridden SirRoderick Femm (yes-- she played a MAN - with whiskers!) in "The OldDark House." In that film's closing credits she was billed as "John"Dudgeon! Personally, my fave screen appearance by Ms. Dudgeon was inWarner Brothers 1936 B-mystery-comedy, "Sh! The Octopus." If youhaven't seen it, I won't spoil it for you. I will, however, say thatDudgeon simply steals the movie, near it's climax. Other supporting-actors who appeared in "Mystery House" include SheilaBromley, Eric Stanley, and Trevor Bardette (another veteran who hashundreds of screen appearances to his credit). Any discussion of the Nurse Keate films would be incomplete withoutmentioning "The Great Hospital Mystery" --produced by 20th-Century/Fox,and starring Jane Darwell. While most of the Eberhart/Keate yarns werefilmed by Warners, this lone 20th/Fox effort stands out for manyreasons. It features a superior cast of supporting actors. In additionto Oscar-winner Jane Darwell, the cast includes Sig Ruman, Sally Blane,William Demarest, Joan Davis, and Thomas Beck. If you're an Eberhart/Keate fan, "The Great Hospital Mystery" is thefilm you must not miss. It's an atmospheric little mystery, best seenlate at night....when you're all alone. --D.--
=============
like ratio : 0.9230769230769231
interest ratio: 0.8666666666666667
moviename: Mystery House
number of likes: 12
number of interests : 13