"Hollywood Canteen" is the story of the actual organization that fedand entertained soldiers during World War II, started by Bette Davisand John Garfield, both of whom appear in the film. Actual female moviestars served as hostesses and danced with the lonely soldiers. In thisstory, Slim (Robert Hutton) meets his fantasy woman, Joan Leslie, atthe Canteen, and when he later becomes the one millionth man to enterthe Canteen, he's allowed to choose her as his date for the weekend.Dane Clark plays his buddy.If you were at Warner Brothers in the '40s, you were in this movie,with very few exceptions. There was some wonderful musical performingas well, tops in my book being Carmen Cavallaro and Jack Benny's dueton the violin with Joseph Szigeti. You can also hear the AndrewsSisters, Roy Rogers and Trigger, Eddie Cantor, Benny Goodman and manyothers.All of the women looked stunning, including Davis, Alexis Smith,Eleanor Parker, Jane Wyman, Joan Leslie, Barbara Stanwyck, Ida Lupino,Joan Crawford, and an unbelievably young and gorgeous Janis Paige.There were also appearances by Dennis Morgan, Jack Carson, SidneyGreenstreet, Helmet Dantine, Paul Henried, and Peter Lorre.It was all very interesting but some of the numbers went on a bitelong. However, if you're of that era, it will bring back sometremendous memories. Hutton (Barbara Hutton's cousin) was aninteresting actor, likable and very reminiscent of Jimmy Stewart. Hecontinued to work in Hollywood for another 30 years but never achievedstardom. Most fascinating to me was seeing and hearing Kitty Carlisleas she performed "Once to Every Heart," realizing that this film wasmade 62 years ago - and Kitty just performed her nightclub act, at 95,in New York City. God bless her.By the way, female servicewomen were not allowed in the HollywoodCanteen. I can't remember who it was, but eventually someone startedtea dances for the women soldiers to give them someplace to go onleave. For shame.
=============
like ratio : 1.0
interest ratio: 0.5151515151515151
moviename: Hollywood Canteen
number of likes: 17
number of interests : 17