Easy Street is one of the first films that really solidified Chaplin\'sintentions to continue to represent the poorer people of society. In thisfilm, Chaplin\'s common rich vs. poor theme is especially prevalent in theway that the predicament of the poor is presented, and especially given thefact that, at this point in his career, Chaplin was earning roughly $10,000a week. Although this is one of Chaplin\'s best short films, it is strange that inthe church near the beginning of the film, he turns the hymn book upsidedown as though he can\'t read, but then he is soon able to read the helpwanted sign at the police station. At any rate, after he leaves the church,having found Jesus, he finds the streets seething with comical violence. Hesees that the police are looking to hire, and his hesitant entrance into thepolice station is one of the funniest parts of the entire film.Clearly, it\'s amusing enough to see the tramp in a policeman\'s uniform, butthe way that he and the bully that seems to have claimed ownership of EasyStreet interact is also some classic comedy. The irony in this film is thatCharlie is trying to get this huge guy under control so that he will stopterrorizing the people, but then when he does, in fact, defeat him, thepeople are afraid of HIM. As is almost always the case when Charlie performssome heroism in his films (usually inadvertently), he acts like it was nobig deal when people arrive (see the scene in The Gold Rush when Jack getsknocked out by a falling clock, and Charlie thought that he had done it).The part that most clearly represents Charlie\'s sympathy for the poor inthis film is the scene when he catches the woman stealing from the sleepingstreet vendor. At first, it seems that he is going to turn her in, but he isso heartbroken that he runs to the street vendor (who is still asleep), andsteals more food for the woman, and then encourages her to hurry off beforethe vendor wakes up and realizes what has happened. This rich vs. poor theme is one of the many that traverses a good majorityof Chaplin\'s career, but there are many other things that can be seen in hislater films, like the love interest element of The Bank that can be seen ina very similar form later in City Lights. In this film, there is a shortsequence where Charlie sits on a hypodermic needle that had been used by aman to shoot up with (something like that wouldn\'t be quite as funny if itwas done today), and his reaction to the small dose of the drug is almostexactly the same as that in Modern Times, when he pours cocaine onto hisfood, thinking it\'s salt.Easy Street is an entertaining and heartwarming story in many ways, and theending leaves the feeling that something has really been accomplished in thefilm. As Charlie calmly walks the sidewalks in his policeman\'s uniform,everyone on the street is orderly and well dressed, and even the bully tipshis hat to Charlie as he walks by. Unfortunately, very few people watchChaplin\'s films anymore, but even if only a few are watched, this shoulddefinitely be one of them.
=============
like ratio : 1.0
interest ratio: 0.5185185185185185
moviename: Easy Street
number of likes: 14
number of interests : 14