I always fancied myself a connoisseur of classic sword and sorcery movies,but this gem has some how slipped by me for decades. I was very glad Icaught it recently on cable. Keeping in mind its 40 plus year old release,I\'d have to say this film was pretty solid. Its antiquated effects onlyheighten its nostalgic value and fantastic feel, but i caution you tostillwatch this movie with a bit of mercy and leeway.Surprisingly, the \'demons\' in the castle were rather authentic and creepyina very contemporary sense (check them out), as well as the marching dragonmen guards on the bridge, and the make up of the evil witch alter-ego oftheprincess (complete with way ahead of their time Micheal Jackson Thrillergiant yellow demon contact lenses) all of which came off with an eeriemodern vibe.I absolutely love how there were so many unique creatures always lurkingabout, like the Star Wars cantina scene or a Power Rangers episode. Kudostothe relentless onslaught of evil magical spells and fantastic beasts thatwere constantly thrown at the heroes until the end credits rolled. Ifmodernscreenplays/films of this genre were made with such attention to monstersand battles and true fantasy action versus all the other crapola thrown into attract non fantasy fans... we\'d be in good shape... and maybe even beprivy to a simple great fantasy flick that is packaged in an actual 90minute movie (remember those?)A non stop eclectic mixture of characters from every conceivable fantasyrealm and fairyland mythos intertwine in this flick for a mostinterestingwatch indeed. Also, plenty of fun over the top dialogue about witches anddemons and dragons and little people, plus more cheesy stop animation andIDream of Jeannie dissapearing acts than you can shake your plastic Vikingsword at.A real treat that had previously escaped me, as well as an obviouspre-cursor to the pinnacle godfather of stop motion sword and sorcerymovies... Clash of the Titans... all hail.As a fun bonus, watch for the strange (real?) almost handicapped limp oftheevil wizard Pendragon, as well as what appears to be some flaws in thecolorization proccess during the demon vs. ship scene.Sure you could rip this movie to shreds and pick it a part at will, butwhy?Its older than your mamma and a lot more fun. So grab a beer, gather thekiddies, and sit back and enjoy... and just keep thinking to yourself howthis thing screams modern REMAKE!!!
=============
like ratio : 0.8333333333333334
interest ratio: 0.6885245901639344
moviename: Jack the Giant Killer
number of likes: 35
number of interests : 42