     This film puts forward the theory that all middle-aged men are destinedto "play-the-sap" for young women, and since it must come to pass, it isprudent to do so in ones fantasies, not in reality.  It\'s a blast listeningto Prof. Wanley, (Edward G. Robinson), District Attorney Frank Loler,(Raymond Massey), and Dr. Barkstane, (Edmund Breon), all in their late 40\'sto late 50\'s, talking about young women as though they were livingbomb-shells.  Why, if a middle-aged man gets within 30 feet of a prettyyoung woman, she could mesmerize him with a glance, make him give her allhis possessions for a single kiss, and of course, eventually destroy himcompletely...with one hand tied behind her back.  Indeed, Edmund Breon, whoplayed a middle-aged music box collector in the excellent Rathbone/SherlockHolmes film, "Dressed To Kill",  fell under the thrall of beautifulvillainess Patricia Morison in that film, and paid with hislife.      What got our brave trio talking about young women in the first place isthe compelling painting of a beautiful young woman in an art gallery window,which is next store to their club.  They all fell in love with her at firstsight, with Robinson the last to see it, and the last to have his heartpierced.  Massey and Breon are watching him, and start giving Robinson theneedle.  "We saw her first, so you stay out of it."       It is Robinson\'s destiny to meet the woman in the portrait, Alice Reed,played wonderfully by Joan Bennett.  Of course he\'s wary, and full ofreservations at this chance meeting.  To his credit, he doesn\'t make a foolout of himself, and Bennett genuinely seems to like him. What Robinson doesso effectively in this film is convey very subtly, that he can never reallyquite accept even the possibility that he could hold this beautiful woman\'sattention, no matter how charming or interesting he really is.  It\'s neverstated but implied, that he thinks she\'s doing him a favor by making friendswith him.       Of course, this encounter leads to trouble, very serious trouble, andthe "Woman In The Window" ventures into the dark waters of blackmail andmurder.  District Attorney Lalor (Massey) is in charge of the case, makingthings even more intriguing. It is a compelling film, and Robinson & Bennettare superb in their scenes together.  I\'ll leave you to discover just whatkind of woman the mysterious Alice Reed turns out to be.  This is a veryinteresting and enjoyable film.          
=============
like ratio : 0.8867924528301887
interest ratio: 0.7162162162162162
moviename: The Woman in the Window
number of likes: 47
number of interests : 53