Here's an interesting piece of movie trivia for you. What specialsignificance has Claudette Colbert as a leading lady for John Wayne?Answer; she's the last player male or female to be billed above JohnWayne in any film. Other than in cameo or guest appearances, the Duketook top billing in every single film he made after WithoutReservations.But I suppose it is just that Claudette take top billing here becausein many ways this bears a lot similarity to her Oscar winning role inIt Happened One Night. Only oddly enough she's really in the ClarkGable part. If you remember Gable was the newspaperman down on his luck who spotsrunaway heiress Colbert in Florida and sticks to her to get the bigexclusive story when she's found. Here it's Colbert doing the stickingto Wayne.Colbert plays Christopher Madden an author who has written a big postWorld War II best seller. It's getting as much attention as Gone Withthe Wind back in the day. She's taking a transcontinental train trip toHollywood where Cary Grant and Lana Turner are scheduled to star in afilm adaption of her book. Grant pulls out at the last minute and whileboarding the train trip Colbert catches sight of John Wayne in Marineuniform and thinks he should be the unknown who plays the hero of herbook.Wayne may look the part, but he's got views distinctly different fromwhat Colbert wrote in her novel. Circumstances however force the bothof them with Wayne's pal Don DeFore to leave the train in Chicago andthey have to make their way west just as Gable and Colbert had to maketheir way north in It Happened One Night.Oh, and Wayne and DeFore do not know their companion is a celebrityauthor in the same Colbert did not know Gable was a newspaperman and onto her identity.Without Reservations is a nice comedy, the last one that Wayne would doin modern times. Comedies that he later did like North to Alaska,Donovan's Reef and McLintock had considerably less sophistication thanthis one did.Still like McLintock, Wayne gets to expound on some of his personalphilosophy of rugged individualism as being what made America great. Inresponse to the liberal hero of Colbert's book, Wayne has a veryeloquent scene in talking about our pioneer heritage about people withall that was against them in a savage wilderness, just being gratefulfor the opportunity to make it on their own. Without Reservations mayin fact be the first film where some of his own personal philosophygets written into it.Stealing every scene she's in is Anne Triola who is one of the peoplethe trio meets on the train and later Wayne and DeFore find being awaitress in San Diego. She had such a limited film career, this shouldhave been a breakthrough role for her.Louella Parsons, Cary Grant, Jack Benny, and Dolores Moran have somebrief walk-ons playing themselves. Without Reservations marks the onlyfilm any of them ever did with John Wayne. I only wish Cary's bit hadbeen in a scene with Wayne.These kinds of comedy are what made Claudette Colbert's career. But itwas nice to see John Wayne doing one as well. Though some fans of theDuke might regret he does not throw a punch or fire a weapon in this atall.
=============
like ratio : 0.9047619047619048
interest ratio: 0.7777777777777778
moviename: Without Reservations
number of likes: 19
number of interests : 21