This silent film by director D.W. Griffith is well known to seriousmovie buffs and historians, but not to today\'s general public. I doubtthat a lot of people these days would have the patience to sit througha film that contained three hours of silence. Nevertheless, the film\'stechnical innovations inspired filmmakers in the 1920\'s and later,particularly in Russia and Japan. It also inspired filmmakers in theU.S., including Cecil B. DeMille and King Vidor. For this reason, andfor other reasons, "Intolerance" is an important film.The film\'s four interwoven stories, set in four different historicaleras, are tied together thematically by the subject of "intolerance", aword which could be accurately interpreted today as "oppression","injustice", "hate", "violence", and mankind\'s general inhumanity.Griffith\'s narrative structure, though innovative, is uneven, becausehe gives more screen time to two of the four stories (the "modern" andthe "Babylonian"). Equal time for three stories, thus deleting thefourth, might have worked better.To me, the Babylonian story is the most interesting one because of itsmore complete coverage, and because of its elaborate costumes andspectacular sets. Even though there is no script, the viewer can easilydiscern the plot, which suggests that some of today\'s films might bejust as effective, or more so, if screenwriters would downsize thedialogue.What "Intolerance" offers most of all to contemporary viewers is asense of perspective. Someone once said that despite the enormousadvances in technology, society itself has advanced not at all. Thatmay be true. In the eighty plus years since the film was released,technical advances in film-making have been obvious and impressive. Butwe are still plagued with the same old human demons of oppression,injustice, hate, violence, and ... intolerance.
=============
like ratio : 0.8787878787878788
interest ratio: 0.7415730337078652
moviename: Intolerance : Love 's Struggle Throughout the Ages
number of likes: 58
number of interests : 66