When I was a kid, the next door neighbor was "divorced." You would havethought she was the town hooker. People just did not get divorced inthe '50s.Taken with that framework, 1951's "Payment on Demand" is quiteinteresting. The Ramseys, David and Joyce (Barry Sullivan and BetteDavis), have been married for about 21 years and have two daughters(Betty Lynn and Peggie Castle). One day, a grumpy David comes home andannounces that he wants a divorce. Joyce is shocked, though she reallyshouldn't be. She and her husband have widely divergent values. She'san ambitious, social-climbing, greedy bitch, and he wanted to have apractice with his partner Robert (Kent Taylor) and live on a farm. Thelife she has driven him into has made him miserable.In flashback, Joyce reviews their young love and early marriage, duringwhich she manages to steer a lucrative client her husband's way -- andaway from his partner Robert. When Robert finds out, an importantfriendship ends. When Joyce gives birth to their second child, Davidinforms her that they're moving to San Francisco so he can work withhis client's new business, and he'd like to buy a farm outside thecity. Joyce may be weak from childbirth, but she manages to gatherenough strength to make a scene. From there, she manages to get in withthe society crowd, even though her husband tells her he doesn't like"snooty people." And on it goes.The couple separate; Joyce finds out David is seeing someone and usesit to get an enormous settlement with the threat that she'll ruin thewoman's reputation. Then she goes on a cruise and learns something.Loneliness isn't fun.This is a somewhat old-fashioned look at divorce, focusing onloneliness and the misery of not having a man instead of a womanbuilding a new life for herself and enjoying a sense of freedom.There's a lot of warning about what happens to older women. While someof that has truth to it, the script doesn't allow that there's anythingin life that will bring happiness except marriage or companionship."Payment on Demand" offers Bette Davis a somewhat typical role as acontrolling, difficult woman with shallow values, but one who learns afew lessons along the way. She's excellent. Jane Cowl, who had passedaway by the time this film was released, is Mrs. Hedges, an older womanwith a young "protege" - she's very good. Barry Sullivan is thelong-suffering husband; he always worked well with these strongactresses, and he hands in a sympathetic performance here. John Suttonis a man Joyce meets on a cruise, and he's appropriately elegant.Good film probably not appreciated today because we're so used todivorce, settlements, and infidelity. For the average person, this wasbig stuff in the '50s, when my mother's generation was just gettingmarried and beginning their families.
=============
like ratio : 1.0
interest ratio: 0.9411764705882353
moviename: Payment on Demand
number of likes: 16
number of interests : 16