Growing up in the 1950's I was an avid collector of comics. One of myfavorites was superhero Superman. The other was Plastic Man. For somereason few have heard of the original Plastic Man, but Superman isstill very much with us and probably will be for some time to come.Before judging this series, one must remember that only televisionsthat showed black and white were on the market. There was no color. Ifan early television show was produced in color it was for otherreasons, say possible release on the big screen. Some producers hopedto string two or three episodes of a popular television series togetherand distribute it to movie houses as one feature as was done with TheLone Ranger. Also, there were no big-screen TV's. Therefore specialeffects could be kept fairly primitive (and inexpensive) because theviewer wouldn't be seeing much anyway. The average TV screen was about13". A person was uptown if he/she had a 17" screen. There were Superman movies out at the time featuring other actorsrather than "the real" Superman, George Reeves. The Superman TV showswere compact, well-written, and well-performed. For me Noel Neill willalways be Lois Lane. Ditto for Jack Larson as Jimmy Olsen, JohnHamilton as Perry White, Robert Shayne as Inspector Bill Henderson, andeven though Christopher Reeves did a bang-up job as a later Superman,George Reeves will always be Superman for my generation.Another reason I was so drawn to the Superman TV show was because astunt man who was married to my cousin at the time appeared in one ofthe episodes. In the episode, "The Wedding of Superman" Doyle Brooksplayed Mr. Poole, one of the heavies. Brooks was born in the littlehamlet of Bethesda, Arkansas, married my cousin and set out to become amovie star in Hollywood. He ended up a successful stuntman but did verylittle acting. His biggest success was playing the Ajax White Knight ina now famous television commercial.Superman's may come and go but George Reeves will always be "the"Superman to all of us who were kids in the 1950's.
=============
like ratio : 0.8928571428571429
interest ratio: 0.5384615384615384
moviename: `` Adventures of Superman ''
number of likes: 25
number of interests : 28