6,000 Enemies (1939) *** (out of 4) Good "B" picture from MGM about a tough-as-nails D.A. (Walter Pidgeon)who sends everyone to the big house and he takes pleasure in makingsure that the streets are clear of any scum. His luck eventually runsout when a gangster frames his and soon the D.A. gets sent to the sameprison where he's sent thousands of people. Once inside his life is indanger but he plans on making it through and along the way he meets awoman (Rita Johnson) he sent up who might just have been innocent aswell as hold a clue to his own case. 6,000 ENEMIES is without questionMGM's attempt to try and capture the mood and spirit of a Warner crimepicture and for the most part it succeeds. At just 62-minutes there'sreally no time for any character development or any type of plot growthas everything happens without much reason for thought. The firstfive-minutes pretty much covers Pidgeon's rise to the top and then thenext two-minutes covers his fall from grace and yet the way he's framedmakes no sense and probably could have been defeated inside any courtroom. With that said, there's really no point in making fun of the plottoo much because the movie was made to be simple entertainment andthat's exactly what it manages to be. I thought the prison stuff was alot of fun as we get a lot of familiar situations yet director Seitzreally makes them seem fresh and original. One of the highlights is ascene where the D.A. wants to be put in with the regular guys insteadof the safe haven so they send him to the cafeteria where a full riotbreaks out. Another very good sequence has him having to fight 'Socks'Martin (Nat Pendleton) who just happens to be one of the men sent tokill him. There's another good subplot between the D.A. and a doctor(Paul Kelly) inside the prison. In a film like this it's always good tohave a strong group of actors and they all do fine work here withPidgeon fitting the role of the tough guy with ease. He has no problemmaking you believe he's this brilliant D.A. and he is good at showingoff his toughness as well. I thought both Kelly and Pendleton added alot of entertainment and both are strong as usual. Johnson was alsovery good in her role and you'll certainly be wishing you could seemore of her. Character actor Grant Mitchell plays the dimwitted wardenand we even get Guinn Williams in a brief part. Fans of "B" crimepictures are going to get a real kick out of this one. It's certainlyfar from a masterpiece but then again it wasn't trying to be GONE WITHTHE WIND.
like ratio : 0.25
interest ratio: 0.4444444444444444