CURSE OF THE HAWAIIAN WEREWOLF. Terror and horror under a Hawaiian fullmoon... Jaahaa, sounds cool, doesn't it? Think again...While technically I remember this to be the very first werewolf film -or one of the first - I saw as a tiny little kid on a late night TVchannel, I actually remembered little else of it (aside from the endingterrifying me). Probably because of the complete film being, uh, well,pretty much ballocks. What we got here, is a werewolf in Hawaii, in amotion picture flavored with ancient native sorcery (a curse, alwaysscary stuff!), horribly colored shirts and dangerously short sportingshorts. All this could work, but it doesn't.So what did I get out of this film? Well,... a lot of muzak (seriously,will you listen to all those hideous tunes on the soundtrack) and somegreat textbook examples of experimental cross-cutting. SergejEisenstein should see this - he'd be proud. And then there's RobertFoxworth running around in werewolf make-up. I imagine this film to bea very tedious watch for the regular viewer, but if you manage to placeyourself in the minds of the people who made this, you'll have a hardtime wiping that grin off your face. It's just so ridiculous how theyput this movie together. Especially the "cleverly planned" romanticinterludes between Foxworth and Barbara Trentham are always a hoot towhich you can set a timer. But the most painful thing about this film,is that Foxworth is the actual werewolf. The viewer knows this from thestart, but Foxworth's character doesn't (It's you, Foxworth! Wake up,man, it's YOU! ...aw, Christ!). He always wakes up every morning, buthas no clue about what he'd been up to all night ("Hmmm, must have beentoo much sun and alcohol..."). Now, any film in which the viewer knowseverything from the first minute, but all the other characters arerunning around trying to figure things out, is just a plain bore to sitthrough. In this case, an often funny bore, yes, but you'll be glad tosee the credits roll after that final "shocking" surprise end-shot.Finally, I can imagine one of the very first production meetings ofthis film having went a little as follows. Throw in a producer (P),director (D) and writer (W): P: "Let's make a film about a guy going to Hawaii on a holiday and havehim change into a werewolf every night." D: "Great! I love werewolf movies. I want to direct one." P: "Fine! Writer, figure something out to make the guy a werewolf." W: "Okay, we could put a curse on him, because his ancestors were evilmissionaries... or something." P: "Wonderful angle! I like it! Anything else?"W: "I could throw in a redundant subplot about a thief, robbing rooms.So the police can run around clueless." P: "Excellent! Who's going to play the leading guy?"W: "I suggest Robert Foxworth. He usually doesn't have a clue about thecharacters he's playing." D: "Uh, could I direct some romantic interludes too? I like those." P: "Yeah sure. Romance always works." D: "What about tits? I want to shoot some naked breasts too." W: "I could write a gratuitous shower-scene into the script" P: "Okay for the shower-scene. But no tits. Remember, this is going tobe shown on television. And put Foxworth in a shower somewhere too, forthe ladies. But don't show his butt, D." D: "Aw, darn. I like Foxworth's butt." P: "Okay, all set then. W, you get your script ready in a week. I'llbook us some tickets to Hawaii. I could use a holiday myself." D: "Yipii! We're gonna make a werewolf movie in Hawaii!" P: "Shut up, D. Go shoot this movie or you're not getting paid." Sure they got away with this. It was the 70's. They got this moviemade.
like ratio : 0.125
interest ratio: 1.0