This is the first (and probably only) Nick Zedd movie I have ever seenbut I can already tell what kind of a director he is. He's one thatdeliberately attempts to make his movies look bad and even cheaper thanthey already were in fact to make. He does this by using cardboardsets, that deliberately look all the more like cheap cardboard sets,bad editing, old camera's, over-lighting and a bad script, with badvisuals and actors in it.It's the sort of movie that tries to be a sort of a throwback to the'50's B-monster and science-fiction genre. I could recognize abouteverything that the movie tried to do but yet I still really couldn'tappreciate it all that much. Why? Well, you could better ask thatquestion to the film-makers.I really don't see the point of this movie. It's a 'modern' movie, thatdeliberately wants to look bad, cheap and utterly silly. But why?What's the point of it all it it doesn't make the movie a good orentertaining one to watch. This is really the biggest complaint I haveabout this movie. I can enjoy watching a bad and silly B-movie from the'50's but I really couldn't enjoy watching this movie. The movie is toobusy trying to be silly and forgets to ever become a fun one as well.It makes this ultimately such a pointless watch, that besides feelsmore like a torment instead.Just its title alone makes it apparent what kind of movie this is. Thetitle looks as if it's the most crazy one they could come up withduring a short brainstorm session. 'We should name our movie GeekMaggot. Bigno! Or perhaps The Freak. From Suckweasel Mountain?' It'stitle makes absolutely no sense though in the context of the movie andhas actually nothing to do with the movie at all. It simply wants tocome across as as silly as possible, as does the entire movie.Really, I wanted to appreciate and like this movie, since I recognizedall of tricks Nick Zedd used to make the movie look and feel like alow-budget, Z-grade, monster/science-fiction flick and I also reallysort of liked its cheap visuals and unusual directing approach butabout half way through I really had to give up on it all. It juststarted to drag on and on, without being about anything really and thestory actually got worse as it neared its end. And like I said, themovie still could had been somewhat saved if it actually was a fun oneto watch. But there is really hardly entertainment to be found in thisodd production, which still remains the movie its biggest miss.An unusual and odd little movie that I wish I could recommend, sinceit's definitely something unique but I just can't find any good reasonsto do so.3/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
like ratio : 0.25
interest ratio: 0.4