In the 1910s and 20s, Mary Pickford was the biggest actress alive. Hermovies were adored and when she and husband Douglas Fairbanks touredthe world, they were the toast of every nation--including not just theUK and France but even the Soviet Union. And, although a Canadian, shewas given the title 'America's Sweetheart'. Folks loved her in allsorts of films--especially ones where the actress played little girlsand teenagers--though she was WAY too old to be playing such parts. Itdidn't matter...EVERYONE loved her. Because of this, I can only assumethat either she thought the public would like her in ANYTHING, so let'smake a pile of crap film like "Kiki" or perhaps she simply was tryingto commit career suicide. All I know is that I adore most of herfilms...but think that "Kiki" is among the most annoying films I haveever seen! I wonder how folks back in the day thought of it? Well,considering she only made a few sound films, it possibly could havebeen that folks finally were tiring of her.The single biggest problem with "Kiki" is that the film was VERY dated.As a silent picture, it might have worked--mostly because you wouldn'thave had to LISTEN to Pickford and her horrendous French accent. To sayit was broad and overboard is a great understatement. She is to Frenchaccents like Jethro Bodine was to country accents in "The BeverlyHillbillies"--it was THAT strong and over the top. Heck, Pepe le Pewseems far more restrained than she did in the film. And, like in herfilms where she played children, her Kiki is often petulant andchildish--which worked fine in 1918 or 1920. Here, though, she justseems like a....well, IMDb won't let us put the B-word in our reviews!Oddly, she's supposed to be cute...she certainly isn't! Because ofthese things, it's difficult not to thoroughly hate her or the sound ofher voice. Oddly, however, Reginald Owen's character is inexplicablydrawn to this demanding, annoying and selfish woman in the film. Why? Ihave no idea...but can only assume his character was meant to beinsane! And, equally insane is the audience in the film that watch herstage performance and adore her histrionics. None of this makes anysense and it seemed that the character is about as one-dimensional anddislikable as any I can recall. Overall, this is a truly horriblefilm--not just because Pickford was so bad but because it builds up somuch ill-will in the viewer! I have long adored her films and wouldplace her films like "My Best Girl", "Suds" and "Daddy Long Legs" amongthe best silents. But, try as I might, I hated "Kiki" and never want tosee this awful film again! Loud, brash, unsubtle and annoying...alladjectives you'd never think to associate with 'America's Sweetheart'!
like ratio : 0.3333333333333333
interest ratio: 0.6