So the story of this film is preposterous at best, even for it's time.A girl meets a rich guy who talks her into leaving her baby in anothercountry for like a decade or so, then decides she wants her back butthe woman she left her with pretends she's dead, then she goes toAmerica and for some reason doesn't tell her mom but instead goes towork for her, entangling her in some scam against playboy step-dad andoh-yeah, she meets a totally not-so-charming man who she falls forbecause he helps her up when falls face first in the mud. and she's gota duck and two orphan children as pets. did i miss anything? I reallycan'tsay anything for the story of this movie, but when she's aloud runamok, Pickford is as as great as ever, I just Barely recommend thismovie for those moments. everyone knows the famous scrub brush-skatingscenes. but i'll list a few more for good measure.1. the sequence in which she impresses an old man by fishing a massivesturgeon from a puddle, turns out it was her family's dinner for theevening and when the maid finds it missing she nearly kills the cat.2. She cleans her dirty feet off by laying on her back on a table andrubbing them on a towel on the wall as if she was walking up the wall.3. Mary's character is elated at having smuggled a duck into the USraising it triumphantly over her head and marching away like victoriousgeneral.4. Falling in the mud she tries to clean herself off and only winds upleaving two suggestive hand prints over her breasts. When a cute richboy arrives to see if she's all right, in embarrassment she tries tocover it up by grabbing herself suggestively, actually doing with handswhat the mud hand prints suggested. (probably really racy for the day.)5. the suitor asks of the Bellina orphans she's picked up along a roadafter their mother died: "Are the children really yours?" she says"Yes. I found them." she says. To which he makes a face to suggest."oh, good enough for me." so yeah, I wrote a lot about a movie I'm notthat into, but those moments and a few others make the film worthwhile.Mary Pickford is a giant supernova of charm and a fantastic performer,she outshines her directors unfortunately.
like ratio : 0.0
interest ratio: 0.375