Wow...this is one of the strangest first half hours of any film I haveever seen. Believe it or not, the first 15 minutes of the film havejust about NOTHING to do with where the film goes next--and in theprocess, it strains credibility WAAAY past the breaking point! The filmbegins with Mary Astor being driven by a fiancé who is an irresponsiblethrill-seeker. Again and again, he nearly gets them killed by hisreckless and super-high speed driving. Yet, despite this, she STILLplans on marrying the jerk--which irritated me quite a bit.Eventually, Mary starts to have doubts about following through with themarriage--but his driving (oddly) didn't seem to be the final straw.Here is where things get really, really contrived--and rather crazy!!The fiancé steps out of the room they rented and Mary somehow getslocked in the place. In the meantime, a detective stops by and demandsto be let in--and she lies that she's not dressed when all she reallyneeded to say was she couldn't get out of the room! And, by the way,did he stop by and why did she lie?! This made no sense--nor did itmake sense when, out of the blue, a criminal climbs into the roombetween the time the detective knocks on the door and before he returnswith a pass key!! What are the odds?!? And, in the process, thecriminal shoots a cop who is chasing him!!! So, Mary is locked in aroom, a detective stops by BEFORE there is a crime committed, a realcrime is then committed and the criminal chooses this particular roomfor a hideout, the crook shoots and kills another cop before he is alsoshot dead, but before dying he hides the loot in Mary's bag!!!! If allthis doesn't sound utterly ridiculous, it gets worse! After thedetective leaves but before he returns with the pass key, the maidarrives and lets Mary out of the room. Now what would any SANE persondo? Well, according to this film, you pay the maid a fortune (for 1930)and take a job the maid was going to take in another part oftown--going undercover to avoid the cops even though you'd done NOTHING(other than appear in a bad film). All this mess involving the policeoccurred in only about eight minutes in the film!! The next portion ofthe film is like yet another film crammed into one very, very busymovie. Mary is now a cook and the bachelor for whom she is working is verytaken by her--and it's PAINFULLY obvious that they will fall in love bythe end of the film. Why couldn't they have just kept the first portionof the film with the irresponsible fiancé and this section where shebecomes the cook for this swell guy? After all, the intervening portionis just too goofy and stupid...and really undoes the entire film.Overall, the impact is very poor--and a movie that isn't really worthyour time unless you LIKE 3rd rate films with occasionally bad sound(which was not terribly uncommon for an early talking picture). It's abad film for so many reasons...but rarely is it boring!!
like ratio : 0.25
interest ratio: 0.8888888888888888