IMDb lists this movie at 66 minutes, though the film I saw was only 58.I am not sure if IMDb is wrong or if perhaps the public domain copy onarchive.org has been trimmed. I would not be surprised if it's thelatter, as the film has some steamy moments and is clearly Pre-Code instyle--so perhaps some of the juicy bits have been removed. This wouldhave had to have been done if the film was re-released in the late 30sor 40s, as the film was too adult to comply with the new code.The setting for "Picture Brides" is some hellish place in the tropicswhere a group of white scum treat the locals like garbage in theirquest for diamonds. A group of white women are headed to the camp aspicture brides for these men. One of them (Dorothy Libaire) has no ideawhat's in store for her, as the folks who organized these marriageslied to her to get her there. Once there, she finds the man she issupposed to marry, Von Luden (played with gusto by Alan Hale) is abrutal monster. Another woman in the group feels sorry for her andswitches things so that the innocent woman will marry nice-guy Dave(Regis Toomey). However, Von Luden decides he wants this woman anywayand tries to rape her--and is rescued by Dave. As a result, Von Ludendecides to destroy Dave, as he has a secret--he's a wanted man back inthe States. It gets even crazier--and I'll let you see what happensnext.As you can tell with my description above, this is NOT a film you wouldhave seen from Hollywood in 1935 or later. That's because the toughenedProduction Code went into effect in mid-1934 and topics like rape andviolence towards women were pretty much forbidden. In some ways thiscode was good--some films were incredibly sleazy and had nudity andviolence that might shock viewers even today. However, "Picture Brides"is somewhat tame compared to these films and worked better with all itssalacious elements. In other words, it ain't pretty but it isentertaining! Despite a relatively low budget, this is a pretty goodflick.
like ratio : 0.25
interest ratio: 0.5714285714285714