A Walt Disney MICKEY MOUSE Cartoon.Folding-kit  BOAT BUILDERS Mickey, Goofy & Donald attempttoput together their small ship with predictably disastrousresults.Featuring first rate animation & a very funny plot, thisclassiclittle film reunites the three buddies in another cartoonnotdissimilar to CLOCK CLEANERS (1937), their hit of the yearbefore.Goofy & the Duck carry most of the show, with their voice artists-Pinto Colvig & Clarence Nash - giving topnotch performances.Voiced by Walt Disney, Mickey easily steps into the positionofgood guy & regular fellow. Miss Minnie has a quick cameoandsharp-eyed movie mavens will spot Horace Horsecollar &Clarabelle Cow among the crowd at the launching.Walt Disney (1901-1966) was always intrigued by pictures&drawings. As a lad in Marceline, Missouri, he sketchedfarmanimals on scraps of paper; later, as an ambulance driverinFrance during the First World War, he drew comic figures onthesides of his vehicle. Back in Kansas City, along with artistUbIwerks, Walt developed a primitive animation studio thatprovidedanimated commercials and tiny cartoons for the local movietheaters. Always the innovator, his ALICE IN CARTOONLANDseries broke ground in placing a live figure in a cartoonuniverse.Business reversals sent Disney & Iwerks to Hollywood in1923,where Walt\'s older brother Roy became his lifelong businessmanager & counselor. When a mildly successful series withOswald The Lucky Rabbit was snatched away by the distributor,the character of Mickey Mouse sprung into Walt\'s imagination,ensuring Disney\'s immortality. The happy arrival of soundtechnology made Mickey\'s screen debut, STEAMBOAT WILLIE(1928), a tremendous audience success with its use ofsynchronized music. The SILLY SYMPHONIES soon appeared,andWalt\'s growing crew of marvelously talented animators werequickly conquering new territory with full color, illusions ofdepthand radical advancements in personality development, an arenainwhich Walt\'s genius was unbeatable. Mickey\'s feisty, naughtybehavior had captured millions of fans, but he was soon tobejoined by other animated companions: temperamental DonaldDuck, intellectually-challenged Goofy and energetic Pluto. Allthiswas in preparation for Walt\'s grandest dream - featurelengthanimated films. Against a blizzard of doomsayers, Waltpersevered and over the next decades delighted children ofallages with the adventures of Snow White, Pinocchio, Dumbo,Bambi & Peter Pan. Walt never forgot that his fortunes wereallstarted by a mouse, or that childlike simplicity of messageandlots of hard work will always pay off.
like ratio : 0.3333333333333333
interest ratio: 0.2727272727272727