This movie can truly be called life-changing. It certainly changed mylife;I was totally ignorant of opera before a chance re-run of this movieintroduced me to a whole new musical world. As it turned out, I was inillustrious company. There is not a single contemporary tenor of note whowas not inspired by this movie.Let\'s be honest from the outset: the movie bears little resemblance tothereal Caruso\'s life, and, yes, it is corny in the grand tradition ofHollywood musicals. But who cares? Lanza\'s singing is perfection itself,andhis vibrant personality overflows in practically every scene. The rest ofthe cast is good, with top-notch operatic singers Blanche Thebom,GiuseppeValdengo, et al providing Lanza with some worthy (and rare) vocalsupport.Highlights include a superb Vesti la Giubba, a moving Ave Maria and arapturous Because. In all the movie contains 27 vocal items, with not adullmoment to be found amongst them.See this movie and revel in a unique vocal talent. In the words of oneadmirer, Mario Lanza could "outsing the entire Mormon Tabernacle Choir",andthe movie is a stark reminder of how bland today\'s singing idols reallyare.Enrico Caruso, Jr, was one observer who concurred with this view.Whilethemovie overlooked his existence in favor of his half-sister Gloria,Caruso\'sson had nothing but praise for the man who portrayed hisfather:"Mario Lanza was born with one of the dozen or so great tenor voices ofthecentury, with a natural gift for placement, an unmistakable and verypleasing timbre, and a nearly infallible musical instinct conspicuouslyabsent in the overwhelming majority of so-called \'great\' singers. Hisdiction was flawless, matched only by the superb Giuseppe di Stefano. Hisdelivery was impassioned, his phrasing manly, and his tempi instinctivelyright -- qualities that few singers are born with and others can neverattain."I can think of no other tenor, before or since Mario Lanza, who couldhaverisen with comparable success to the challenge of playing Caruso in ascreenbiography."Well said, Enrico Jnr, and viva il grande Lanza!
=============
like ratio : 0.8571428571428571
interest ratio: 0.9545454545454546
moviename: The Great Caruso
number of likes: 18
number of interests : 21