A joyous technicolor is the symbol of what dear old classic movies mean forus: entertainment, relax, simple but beautiful stories, nice and talentedactors, great cinematography and costumes, accurate direction, and, ofcourse, a due happy ending. "The Mississippi gambler" is a perfect instanceof what I\'ve just said.The whole cast works beautifully. I like Tyrone Power. He succeeds in thedifficult task of being a beautiful man and an incredibly nice guy. He is avery good actor, too, largely underrated, in my opinion. For the talent ofpretty Piper Laurie just refer to "The hustler". Here she manages to bebrilliant even in the somewhat straightforward role of the spoiled girl. Andthen we have John McIntire: he is a member of the club of theall-time-greatest supporting actors, together with Walter Brennan, ThomasMitchell etc. His mere presence improves a film.The story is quick-paced, interesting, entertaining, romantic, much 1800ish.The good taste rules. There\'s plenty of amiable 19th century cliches. Whodoesn\'t like the old gentleman (great job by Paul Cavanagh) who faces a duelto defend the reputation of a young woman? According to the literature ofthe 19th century, brothers seem to exist mainly to cause major troubles andmisery to their affectionate sisters. In "The Mississippi gambler" we haveno less than two independent examples in this direction. By the way, JohnBaer is very good in the role of the debauched, arrogant but cowardyoungster. The photography, costumes, and locations are gorgeous. The interiors areoutstanding: look at the furniture, it\'s magnificent. Everything is mergedin a glorious, shining technicolor, the main ingredient of our dreams, thevehicle for us to be transferred into another epoch.Something to add? A fine design is made of the 1800ish psychology of thecharacters: romanticism, honor, duels, pride, want of adventure, and allthat sort of likeable things."The Mississippi gambler" is a really good movie, worth of a golden age ofcinema. 
=============
like ratio : 0.8666666666666667
interest ratio: 1.3636363636363635
moviename: The Mississippi Gambler
number of likes: 13
number of interests : 15