Claudette Colbert is a schoolteacher thinking about her past life in"Remember the Day," a 1941 film also starring John Payne, ShepperdStrudwick, Ann E. Todd, Jane Seymour and Anne Revere. As she waits tocatch a glimpse of a former student, Dewey Peters, now running forPresident, Nora Trinell (Colbert) thinks back to 1916, when Dewey was achild in her class, and she had just met another teacher in the school,Mr. Hopkins (Payne). Dewey has a terrible crush on Nora, who sees histrue worth right away; Hopkins is in love with her. Kay, a student inDewey's class, is crazy about him, but Dewey is at an age where hedoesn't want any girls around. Besides, he's in love with Nora. Nora and Hopkins eventually marry secretly, and he signs up for WorldWar I. Dewey is heartbroken when he sees them together. Before goingaway to prep school, Nora encourages him in his goals and tells himthat he is like a son to her. At his request, she goes to see him offat the train, the same train her husband is on en route to battle. Thelast time we see her in the flashback, she is waving goodbye.This is a very touching movie with some nice performances, particularlyby Colbert, Payne, and Douglas Croft, who plays the young Dewey. Thefashions don't look particularly of the period, and as usual, everyoneis aged much more than the 25 years that are supposed to have passed.It is true that people look younger today at 50, partly because wefight aging and also because of a youthful attitude, as one of thereviewers states. I still think everyone looked too old, and thatincludes young Dewey's parents during the flashback, who looked likehis grandparents. It's unusual for Twentieth Century Fox to havepermitted any aging at all - Zanuck would barely let Tyrone Power havegray at the temples in films with long time spans.Colbert was actually 9 years older than John Payne, but I was aware ofit only because I knew it. She was cast opposite younger men more thanonce. She is very lovely in this, looking much younger than her 38years. She really carries the film. Payne, a very well-built hunk,gives a wonderful performance.The acting really uplifts this film as does the solid directing ofHenry King. You may shed a tear or two - if you don't mind that,"Remember the Day" is well worth seeing.
=============
like ratio : 0.9166666666666666
interest ratio: 0.8
moviename: Remember the Day
number of likes: 11
number of interests : 12