Ten Cents a Dance (1931) *** (out of 4)Criminally underrated drama about a woman (Barbara Stanwyck) working ata dance hall who agrees to marry a poor man (Monroe Owsley) even thoughshe could have had a rich man (Ricardo Cortez) who was in love withher. Soon after the marriage the woman learns that her husband is awomanizer and a thief but she's forced to ask the rich man for moneywhen her husband falls into some major trouble. I had read so manynegative reviews about this thing (including one in Leonard Maltin'sClassic Movie Guide) that it really took me by surprised and I'dprobably go as far as to call it one of the most underrated andun-appreciated films from this era. I'm not going to say this is a lostmasterpiece or some important piece of film history but it's certainlya highly entertaining gem that deserves to be re-discovered. Whatreally caught me off guard was the performance of Stanwyck who is quiteremarkable. She made a career out of playing tough women who wouldn'ttake any crap from anyone but here she's the complete opposite as hercharacter is so weak and fragile that it really shocked me at howterrific the actress played it. Just take a look at the first tenminutes when she's forced to be tough inside the dance hall but thenthe next scene she's falling for the sad story being told to her byOwsley. The compassion Stanwyck expresses in this scene is somethingI've never seen from her and the eventual weakness of her character issomething else I've never seen her do. She handles all of thisextremely well and it really made me wish we had gotten to see moreroles like this. Sure, she's a legend playing the tough girl but shereally was remarkable here and sold every inch of her character. Owsleyis also terrific as he too has different sides of his character and hedoes both of them with ease. I thought he was terrific as the sweet,friendly guy that Stanwyck marries and that sleazy side comes acrosswithout any issues. Cortez is another major plus getting to play asoft-hearted guy. Barrymore's direction is pretty straight-forward ashe doesn't go for much style but instead lets the performance lead thefilm. I thought he did a very good job at keeping the drama going andit's a shame this turned out to be his last directorial job. The filmis based on a popular song of the day and when I saw this on thecredits I thought we were going to be in for a long and boring film butit was the complete opposite. This Columbia film has pretty much beenforgotten, which is a real shame but hopefully more people will give ita shot. Film buffs will also notice a line that would become legendaryin CASABLANCA but here it is over a decade earlier.
=============
like ratio : 0.9
interest ratio: 1.4285714285714286
moviename: Ten Cents a Dance
number of likes: 18
number of interests : 20