Often overlooked, "Time After Time"  is probably one of the besttime travel movies (if there is such a genre) ever made. The timetravel effects are cheesy and mercifully few, but the film puts storyand character way above visual effects, making for a good tradeoff.Malcolm McDowell is H.G. Wells who, in this movie, actuallyinvents a time machine rather than just writing about one. "TheTime Machine" is told in flashback as "the time traveler" emergesfrom his time machine and recounts his adventures to a gatheringof friends at his home. "Time After Time" borrows that scene fromthe book, having Wells announce that he has built the timemachine and will embark on an adventure to the future utopia assoon as he works up the nerve. The proceedings are interupted bypolice at the door conducting a search in the wake of a new attackby Jack the Ripper. As it turns out, one of Wells\' guests, Dr. JohnLeslie Stevenson (played by David Warner), is the Ripper. Whilethe police comb through the house looking for him,  Stevensonmakes his way to the basement. There, he enters Wells\' timemachine and escapes to the future.Feeling responsible for having turned the maniacal Jack theRipper loose on the future utopia, Wells enters the machine(which returns to it\'s point of origin unless a special key is used)and follows Stevenson 90 years into the future.  The time travelsequence consists of cheesy optical effects accompanied by aclever audio montage that depicts most of the 20th century. Wellsemerges from the machine shocked to find himself in SanFrancisco, California in the year 1979. The time machine, as wellas most of his possesions, are on display in a San Franciscomuseum.While searching for Jack the Ripper he meets Amy Robbins (MarySteenburgen), a foreign currency exchange officer at a bank. Shereveals that she exchanged very old pounds for dollars withanother Englishman, wearing similarly antiquated clothing. Thisleads Wells to find Jack the RIpper, now decked out in 70sthreads, well integrated into modern society...and continuing hisfiendish deeds.From there, the movie engages the audience in Wells\' andRobbins\' pursuit of the Ripper through the streets of SanFrancisco with an entertaining mix of close-calls, sly humor, andthe inevitable romance between Wells and Robbins.Malcolm McDowell plays the part of H.G. Wells with his usualintensity and skill, and comes off as very believable. MarySteenburgen is well cast as the feminine but  stronglyindependent bank employee, and is adorably frail but surprisinglytough. As for David Warner....well, villians don\'t get much betterthan Warner. A fine actor, Warner plays Stevenson/Jack the RIpperas a cool, sophisticated psychopath - exactly, in my humbleopinion, as Jack the Ripper should be played."Time After Time" makes good use of artistic license to integratefact with fiction. Scotland Yard has always suspect that Jack theRipper might have been a surgeon, as he is in this film. Alsoamusing is the fact that in real life, H.G. Wells did marry an AmyRobbins who was an outspoken feminist. All in all, \'Time AfterTime" is a well written and acted romantic adventure, and remainsone of my favorite time travel movies.
like ratio : 0.9565217391304348
interest ratio: 0.20175438596491227