The amazing, and as yet unmentioned, stroke of genius about this filmis that it invents a totally new and, as far as I know, never againused narrative device: best described as "Someone Else's Flashback"At the opening of the movie a man and a woman staggering across theMexican desert are rescued from certain death by handsome hunk Frankthe surveyor - thus setting him up as the hero but, as the couple startto recover in the oil exploration company's base, he goes back to workand he's never seen again - so he isn't.As he recovers the man starts to tell his story - a strange garbledtale of crashed aeroplanes, monstrous Spider women and a man called"Dr. Aranya" - the camera focuses in on Pepe, the Mexican driver who,on the surface, looks like he's going to be the funny foreigner comicrelief of the flick but doesn't appear again after this opening scene -so isn't. As the camera dwells on Pepe listening to this tale there is a fade toa wide shot of the desert and a car driving towards the camera. Thenarrator says something to the effect of - "Yes it's an interestingtale isn't it Pepe? You could tell them more about this mesa and thestrange things your people tell about it couldn't you? But this isn'twhere the story starts, a month before, doctor Leland Masterson..." andwe're into the 'story' at last.The whole film is then played out as a flashback - but whose? It startsbefore the pilot has arrived on the scene so it can't be his flashback.Because of the focus on Pepe and the fade it looks like it should bePepe's but he wasn't there! So it must be the Narrator's. If it was theNarrator's flashback why go to all the trouble of setting up at leasttwo false starts to the film?You are so busy pondering the meaning of this multi-layered, layerswithin layers, Like an Onion!, Russian Doll of an opening that it takessome time before the simple truth reveals itself. Sheer unmitigatedincompetence! This movie is so bloody awful and lacks any structurewhatsoever... It's hilarious. I especially love the bit where aftersurviving the air crash they traipse off into the jungle to rescueGeorge all holding hands like school children crossing the road. Intothe darkness they creep - on and on and on and on till they reach thestudio wall (and George's body) then they turn around and all creepback again on and on and onzzzzzzzzzzz. Not one second of shot footagewas wasted. It's totally surreal. The best boring, zen-like, creepingthrough the jungle holding hands scene in the history of the movies.Other highlights include the huge spider leg coming out from behind thescreen in Dr Aranya's lab. What was that spider doing behind thescreen? Getting dressed? - another movie first! a modest giant mutantspider!This film also contains a candidate for the worst excuse for sendingsomeone off to their certain death ever - "Where is the comb I gaveyou?" asks the rich man of his wife. "It is a family heirloom! Wu, takethe only flashlight we have and leave us huddling in the dark aroundthis pathetic fire and go into that monster infested jungle and findit!" (Wu it should be explained is Chinese and a bit creepy thereforefalls into the "People who are't going to make it to the end of themovie" category. If he had been a Chinese happy scared-cat cook hemight have made it).So Terrible it's worth watching.
=============
like ratio : 0.8378378378378378
interest ratio: 0.6166666666666667
moviename: Mesa of Lost Women
number of likes: 31
number of interests : 37