This is a remake of the 1930 early-talkie "Outward Bound", which wasbased on the hit 1925 stage play. This version updates the period fromthe 1920's to the 1940's, and incorporates WW II elements into thestory---a totally unnecessary tactic; the original play was quite goodon its own and didn't need to have topical elements awkwardlysandwiched in. In fact,one of its strengths was that the entireunworldly experience seemed to take place in an unspecified time.But this film has a very realistic beginning to it, and a war-relatedincident sets the plot in motion. The film's only seriousblunder---though one that does not fatally affect it----is that we aretipped off as to what is really going on much too early in the film, incomparison to the 1930 film version, in which the characters realizedtheir true situation at the same time as the audience did.Aside from those objections, though, this is one of the few remakeswhich tops the original in nearly every department. Without exception,the actors in this version outdo the stiff, primitive early-talkieperformances of their predecessors, and this may well be the only filmin which Paul Henreid, normally not the most charismatic actor, gives afiner performance than the then-awkward Douglas Fairbanks,Jr. did inthe same role in the 1930 film.Especially outstanding are Edmund Gwenn as the ship's steward, IsobelElsom as a rich, elderly, bitchy woman, Sydney Greenstreet as amysterious character whose identity will not be revealed here, and SaraAllgood in one of the most sensitive performances of her career (sheacts rings around Beryl Mercer from the 1930 version). GeorgeCoulouris, a reliable villain in those days (he was Orson Welles' nastyguardian in "Citizen Kane") is sinister and pompous as a greedy tycoon.And John Garfield is excellent in the Leslie Howard role, altered someto fit Garfield's tough, bitter on-screen persona rather than Howard'sultra-sophisticated, debonair one. (Garfield,though,does not go asberserk when he finds out the truth as Howard so hilariously did in the1930 version.)Although much of the dialogue in the first half has been changed andperhaps made slightly less "literary", the second half,which featuresSydney Greensteet, is quite faithful to the earlier film and the stageplay. Erich Wolfgang Korngold's music runs through nearly every scene,and, although verging toward the bombastic and melodramatic at times,lends plenty of atmosphere to the story.One unfortunate aspect is that the photography in this version neverbecomes as eerie as that in the 1930 version, with its striking lightand darkness effects. But none of these faults should keep you awayfrom this film, which deserves far better than its relative obscurityin comparison to the other great Warner Bros. classics as well as otherfilms dealing with the afterlife.
=============
like ratio : 0.8545454545454545
interest ratio: 1.1
moviename: Between Two Worlds
number of likes: 47
number of interests : 55