The success of this film is due largely to Dick Powell's analogy thatinternational violence is caused by many of the same forces thattrigger personal violence. Some might say the nation is the individualwrit large. His pairing a detonation of an atomic bomb in preparationfor a possible conflagration that would eliminate the human race withthe escape from prison of a perverted hostile trio of killers hidingout in a deserted western town is indeed inspired. Add to this aclever, telling script written largely by Irving Wallace, who knew howto make today's headlines into entertaining stories, and the result isa near classic film for its genre.Some of the best lines are given to Jan Sterling in the role of agood-hearted showgirl, Dottie Vale, who has been ridden around theblock a few times. At one point in carefree desperation, she states,"looks like we're caught between the devil and the bright red bomb."The ambiance of nonchalance permeates the entire picture and helps tolessen the tension caused by the split second count down to Armageddonfor the trapped hostages. Even more humor is introduced with thecharacter of Asa Tremaine, a desert rat who attempts to tell tale talesnot unlike those of Gabby Hayes. Played by Arkansas native ArthurHunnicutt (He's buried at Greenwood, Arkansas), Asa plays a pivotalrole near the conclusion of the film. The rest of the cast iseffective, particularly Stephen McNally who portrays the coldbloodedkiller with no morals, Sam Hurley.The story involves an assortment of personalities who unwittingly endup kidnapped by three escaped killers, one of them mute. The root ofthe plot centers on the interaction among the characters when theirlives are stripped bare with doomsday at 6:00 am the next morning. Theyhold up in an abandoned town waiting for a doctor who happens to be thehusband of a two-timer who is traveling with her boyfriend, now heldcaptive by the killers. There is much edge-of-the-seat suspense as theclock clicks away the minutes.
=============
like ratio : 0.8695652173913043
interest ratio: 0.696969696969697
moviename: Split Second
number of likes: 20
number of interests : 23