I'd like to recommend this to you for a couple reasons.I'm right now doing a survey of films that feature newsrooms. Its asimple sort of fold that wouldn't work today. Amazingly, right afterseeing this, I saw the new "Superman Returns." Horrid little move, butit reminded me that Superman was invented in the 30s and that's why wehave Lois as a reporter.In the 30s there were hundreds of movies set in newsrooms. Its roughlythe same as a movie about the movie business, since the creation ofstories and modeling of life was essentially a writer's game in thatera. And the newsroom was one of the few places where women could bestrong, sexy and articulate. And wow is this dripping with sex.In those days, women could be nurses, teachers, secretaries or whores.Or if they were particularly clever, they were reporters. It was a sortof shorthand, lost today. If your movie put you in a newsroom, it was astage where stories were made. And to have a woman weave stories and insome way control the world. That was something.The story here is Cagney's typical gangster, head of a gang butimprisoned. He gets out and instead of returning to his gang, takes ajob as a reporter. Actually — to make the folding good — as aphotographer, hence the title. You can pretty much guess the story,knowing that he is both ruthless in invading lives and sweet on thedaughter of the cop who "sent him up."Here's the really interesting part: the sexy, precode blond is areporter in the same pool. She's the girl of Cagney's boss but hot forCagney. He's being chased by another broad too. To both he's mean, butthe encounters with them are directly sexual. Its odd. We see her as distinctly available, a silly blond. But we alsoknow she is a crackerjack mind underneath. One scene: Cagney bysubterfuge has obtained a picture of the execution of a murderess. Heis chased all over town but makes it to the newsroom just underdeadline. Breathlessly, he dictates the story to our sexy blond totype. He speaks in blunt gangster slang and we laugh at the notion thatsuch a description would appear in the paper.She types furiously, then the editor reads it aloud and it is threetimes as long, cleverly and articulately written. Big joke. No onenotices. Bigger joke.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.
=============
like ratio : 0.8620689655172413
interest ratio: 0.9666666666666667
moviename: Picture Snatcher
number of likes: 25
number of interests : 29