After reading the mostly lukewarm reviews on IMDb, I decided to givethis movie a try. I like Vincent Price and Charles Laughton, so Ifigured it would be worth a look.Am I ever glad I did! I found perhaps the best movie of 1949! Onceagain I ask the question, "Why have I never heard of this movie?"Perhaps because Ava Gardner went on to star in bigger films. But Icertainly never saw her better (with the possible exception of the farlater "Night of the Iguana").I would not call this a film noir. There are several necessary filmnoir elements that are missing from "The Bribe," in my opinion. I'dcall it more of a cop story.However, that's a lot like saying "Casablanca" is a bar story. Or a warstory. Similar to that film, the crime plot of "The Bribe" is just abackdrop for the love that transforms and overturns Taylor's, Gardner'sand Hodiak's lives.They say the course of true love never did run smooth. But Bogie andBergman had a picnic in the park compared to what Taylor and Gardnermust suffer. Both eventually fall so deeply in love that they'rewilling to destroy their lives for each other, yet neither trusts theother, and both are certain they have been betrayed. Used.Ava Gardner is absolutely captivating in her second major role.Although Taylor does not manage to evoke the pathos Bogart does,Gardner absolutely sizzles! She is on screen during a large portion ofthe film, and every moment is riveting. Her acting has genuine depth aswell, far outdoing Bergman's somewhat cold, rather simplistic naiveté.The girl is really torn up inside! The other great delight in the film is Charles Laughton. He plays thesleaziest, lowest-down weasel that just about ever graced the pages offiction, yet there were times that he reminded me more of Sophocles'sblind seer Tiresias. And in spite of how unwashed and repulsive he is,in spite of how uncaringly he treats everyone he comes in contact with,in spite of his contemptible, almost laughable cowardice, he somehowstill manages to come off as a genuinely lovable character.The movie starts out kind of dumb. I thought with the voice-overnarration that it was going to be another "Lady In The Lake," or maybe"Murder, My Sweet." But once the movie gets going, after half an houror so, it just gets better and better. The plot becomes intense andintriguing. When I thought it was about to end, there were four moreplot twists to go! Don't let this one slip by you next time!
=============
like ratio : 0.8666666666666667
interest ratio: 0.5769230769230769
moviename: The Bribe
number of likes: 13
number of interests : 15