"Imitation of Life" (The New Universal, 1934), directed by John M.Stahl, is the first and best screen adaptation to Fannie Hurst'scelebrated novel, yet underrated and seldom revived. It's a wellwritten and developed character study about two mothers, one white, theother black, who bond a lasting friendship throughout the years whiletheir daughters, both friends, try to face the facts of life, with onein particular, having problems with her imitation of life. The story begins with Beatrice Pullman (Claudette Colbert), a recentlywidowed mother, giving her tottler, Jessie (played by Baby Jane, whobecame better known later Juanita Quigley), a bath while the child isasking for her "quack quack," a toy duck. After dressing her up, Beacomes downstairs to answer the call of the doorbell where DelilahJohnson (Louise Beavers), a black woman, comes to inquire about thelocation of a street where she hopes for possible employment. Afterbeing told that she is on the wrong side of town, Delilah, seeing thatBea has enough work on her own with her own little girl, asks if shecould work as her housekeeper. Finding that little Jessie and Delilah'slight-skinned daughter, Peola (Sabie Hendricks) would be goodcompanions for one another, Bea decides to take Delilah's offer. Later,Bea purchases a store on the boardwalk where she decides to open up andiner where she specializes in pancakes with the use Delilah's secretpancake recipe. While the mothers struggle to success, eventuallymoving into a comfortable household, their daughters become eduated inprivate schools and mature to young women. With success comes problems:Bea meets and falls in love with Steven Archer (Warren William), buttheir relationship is complicated when Bea's 18-year-old daughter(Rochelle Hudson) falls in love with him also; and Delilah's grown-updaughter, Peola (Fredi Washington), becomes resentful of the world ofsegregation, denying both her heritage and mother while trying to passas a white girl, thus, breaking her mother's heart.Overly sentimental drama about mother love to be sure, but this versionof "Imitation of Life" succeeds in many ways. Besides ClaudetteColbert's sincere performance, and a wonderful underscoring by HeinzRoemheld, there is Louise Beavers, being given a rare opportunity tocarry on the entire story in a major motion picture. Sadly the AcademyAward for Best Supporting Actress hadn't come into effect yet,otherwise Beavers, would have gotten that honor for at least anomination. A presentation of such a movie, in 1934, was for its timequite a risk, but fortunately it didn't go unnoticed. "Imitation ofLife" did get the honor of a Best Picture nomination, losing toColbert's other 1934 release, "It Happened One Night," a comedy.Universal remade "Imitation of Life" in 1959 starring Lana Turner, JohnGavin, Sandra Dee, Juanita Moore and Susan Kohner in the Colbert,William, Hudson, Beavers and Washington roles. Aside from it being aglamorized version produced in lavish Technicolor with the storybrought up to date, it became one of the highest grossing movie of thatyear and today ranks one of the most revived tear-jerking dramas ontelevision. There were alterations made, of course, such as changingcentral character of Bea Pullman, a Jewish woman, to whatever she wantsto be in the name of Lora Meredith; the exclusion of the "pancakequeen" business woman to the rise of a Broadway actress; andtransforming the central character's black business partner into theactress's housekeeper and companion. The subordinate story andsentiment remains the same, especially the climax. The only problemwith the remake that makes the original appear more honest is the useof Susan Kohner, a white actress who gave an fine performance, playinga light-skin "colored" girl instead of the use of an actuallight-skinned black actress, thus, ruining the whole purpose to thestory.To see "Imitation of Life" of 1934 is to accept it for what it reallyis, a 1930s "soap opera" about mother love. However, its revival hasbecome a rarity today possibly because of Louise Beavers beingpresented on screen as a stereotyped "colored mammy," but fortunately,not to the extreme. But at the same time, Colbert's character looks andcares for her as an equal, and even becomes very concerned about herwhen her troubled daughter, Peola, denies her. Fredi Washington shouldnot go unmentioned in her worthy performance as Peola. Little is knownof her except that it's been said that she later became one of thefounders of the Negro Actors' Guild in 1937, acting as executivesecretary. Also featured in the cast are Ned Sparks as Elmer Smith; Alan Hale,Marilyn Knowlden, Franklin Pangborn appearing briefly as one of Bea'sparty guests, and Marcia Mae Jones recognizable as one of the schoolstudents in the early portion of the story. Warren William, on loanfrom Warner Brothers, playing Steve Archer, gives his usual highstandard performance of sophistication. "Imitation of Life," which runs almost two hours in length, was firstpresented on American Movie Classics for a while from 1990 to 91, andmade its Turner Classic Movies premiere October 26, 2001. This and theLana Turner remake are both available to compare in video and/or DVDrentals. (***)
=============
like ratio : 0.8421052631578947
interest ratio: 0.6129032258064516
moviename: Imitation of Life
number of likes: 32
number of interests : 38