Although by today's standards The Vanishing American is over the topand melodramatic it still has a fine message about the American Indianand their place in the American dream. The sad truth was that thiscontinent did belong to them and we took it from them.Nothing to be either proud or ashamed of. A society that ranged fromhunting and gathering to the beginnings of agricultural gave way to ato an industrial and full blown agricultural society. Just thesociological way of things. Everything gives way to something in time.That being said, the tragedy of the American Indian was not often toldin these years from the Indian point of view. As a writer Zane Grey wassteeped in western lore and if a white man could tell the story hecould.After a prologue showing the subjugation, we see the desert tribes oftoday living on government handouts, trying to maintain respectabilitybut the victims of a corrupt Indian agent played by Noah Beery. Thatwas the way it was back then, under Democratic or Republicanadministrations, the Department of the Interior was a patronage troughand characters like Noah Beery were more common than we would care toadmit.Richard Dix plays a charismatic leader of his people who actually formsan Indian battalion to fight in what was called then, The Great War. Itwas reasoned we fight for America as good Americans we'll be treated assuch when we return. Instead its business as usual as Beery hasbanished the tribe to desert scrub lands. Time to return to thefighting ways of our ancestors maybe.As Dix's character is presented and he specialized in playing nobleheroes on the silent screen and when talkies arrived, the personaltragedy of this tribe is that Dix comes along about four generationstoo late. He's the kind of leader who might have made a difference backin the day, but can only see the futility of what his tribe is about todo.The Vanishing American shot in what became known as John Ford'sMonument Valley was a big budget item for Paramount back in the day.It's got the sweep and grandeur of a John Ford western and a little bitof the influence of Paramount's number one director Cecil B. DeMille inthis one who made a spectacle film or two of note. Though melodramatic, The Vanishing American should still be viewed forthe lessons it imparts to today's audience.
=============
like ratio : 0.9166666666666666
interest ratio: 1.0
moviename: The Vanishing American
number of likes: 11
number of interests : 12