Slow-moving and pseudo-intellectual horror/thriller that never at onepoint measures up to its glorious title – the alternate VHS box titlethat is – "The House Where Death Lives". I honestly hesitated to stopwatching the film several times during the first half hour alreadybecause it's so boring and absolutely nothing indicates that it mightget better anytime soon. The story handles about a young and attractivenurse who moves into the mansion of a wealthy but crippled elderly man(one of the final roles of horror legend Joseph Cotton of "Baron Blood"and "The Abominable Dr. Phibes") to look after him. The man recentlylost his son and unwillingly obtained custody over his estranged16-year-old suspiciously behaving grandson Gabriel. Then there's alsothree other servants living in the mansion and one mentally unbalancedson that lives locked away in a remote bedroom. One giant big happyfamily, in other words! The mishmash of personalities soon causestensions in the house and people start turning up dead. Seriously, thetitle ought to be changed to "The house where you are bored to death"or something, as this is really one of the most uninteresting andsubstantially void horror movies I've seen in my entire life. The nursecharacter is dull and damp (even her sexual hallucinations are tedious)whilst all the other characters are plain and simply irritating. Youpossibly can't bring yourself to feel sympathy for any of them and youactually just hope they all die quick and gruesomely. There's not atrace of suspense, the supposedly ingenious twist-ending is hugelyderivative and the murders are uninspired and bloodless. Bloodless,damned! What's the point of an early 80's horror movie when the set upis dull and the deaths are gore-free? I've seen episodes of my mother'sdaily soap opera that were more exciting than this turkey. One to avoidat all costs, unless of course you suffers from a bad case of insomnia.Where all medication fails, this movie is guaranteed to put you asleep.
like ratio : 0.3076923076923077
interest ratio: 1.3