In the 1920s, 30s and 40s, Black movie goers were usually not allowedin White movie theaters here in the United States. In addition,theaters catering to Black audiences had difficulties getting first-runfilm and Black audiences really didn't feel much connection to theall-White films Hollywood was producing. As a result, small Black-ownedmovie companies sprang up and tried to fill this void. The problem wasthat these companies were operated on shoestring budgets and theysimply couldn't afford to make polished and high quality films. Some ofthem turned out pretty good, but in general these films were prettydreadful--and what more could you expect considering that 99% of allthe money went to make Hollywood films.Because of this context, you need to understand that with so manystrikes against this film, it's a wonder it even achieves a score of 3(and perhaps my 3 is being a tad generous). The film is a Black versionof a typical Gene Autry film but starring a cast of less experiencedactors, lacking incidental music and a good Foley artist (a lot of theaction has no sound effects or they are severely muffled) andexperienced writers and directors. This was purely a 3rd string groupof film makers and I am sure they were trying their best, but the lackof professionalism shows. All too often, actors just stand around orutter their lines with no emotion or conviction--because they almostuniversally lacked experience and training. As for the film's star,Herb Jeffries, he wasn't too bad. His singing wasn't bad but hecertainly lacked charisma. It's no surprise, then, that this marked thelast of Jeffries cowboy films--being the fifth in a series of veryinconsequential low-budget Westerns.The plot, if anyone really cares, is about a hidden radium mine andsome baddies attempt to steal it from its rightful owner. The problem Isaw with that is that radium occurs only in trace amounts in uraniumand must be processed and refined to collect radium. So why didn't theycall it a 'uranium mine' instead?! After all, you don't mine pureradium. But this is also not particularly important--nor is the filmunless you are watching it for historical purposes or if you arecurious to see the most famous Black singing cowboy.Also, one final note. This is packaged on a DVD along with MURDER INHARLEM by Alpha Video--one of the worst DVD producers on the planet.Most of their videos are fuzzy and tough to watch and this film wascertainly no exception. However, Alpha also specializes in some publicdomain and hard to find films where there simply aren't better copiesavailable and it doesn't make financial sense to properly restore thefilms. Like 'em or not, if you want to see this film, Alpha is probablyyour only source.
like ratio : 0.0
interest ratio: 0.4