I opted to check this out after I realized that I had a number of filmsdealing with the life and times of British King Charles II (acharacter, albeit prior to his occupying the throne, around whom therecently-viewed THE MOONRAKER {1958} revolves); incidentally, I wasunder the impression that the surname of the titular figure had anextra 'n' at the end – which made it difficult for me to locate itsentry on IMDb! Furthermore, it transpired that the copy I acquired –albeit sourced from the official R2 DVD edition – ran for a mere 72minutes (in PAL mode) against the official 86! The film was obviously proposed as a vehicle for leading lady AnnaNeagle – who, as it happened, was director Wilcox's spouse and one ofBritain's top stars of her time. She plays an orange-seller (thoughoften mentioned, she is never shown peddling this trade!) and stageactress who catches the eye of the King (played by Sir Cedric Hardwicke– managing, in spite of the nature of the role, to largely eschew thecheerlessness that marks much of his work!), openly becoming hismistress even though he is officially betrothed to a haughty FrenchDuchess! The two women's sparring for royal attention takes up much ofthe running-time (with the noblewoman even maneuvering to make Nelllook like she is playing Hardwicke for a fool by inventing a liaisonwith Hay Petrie as the ambassador of her own country!) – but the resultis certainly good-looking (this being an early assignment forcelebrated cinematographer Freddie Young) and professionally enoughassembled to rise above "woman's picture" fare. That said, just asprominent are the musical numbers (that smack rather more of 20thcentury music-halls than Restoration-era England!) in which audiences –the King included! – enthusiastically join in.The plot traces the central relationship to its bitter end, when Nell(having already suffered the ignominy of being looked down upon by thearistocracy) is barred from sharing the King's final moments (while theDuchess sensibly flees the scene of her own accord) and leaves theroyal quarters alone. Even so, her earthy background – which sees herrubbing elbows daily with scarred but pensionless war veterans (amongwhom, presumably, is Will Hay regular Moore Marriott…but I sure did notrecognize him!) – leads her to instigate a reform of this kind, shownvia superimposed footage of the institution concerned as it stood in1934! By the way, the script is credited as only having "additionaldialogue" by Miles Malleson (here also playing one of Hardwicke'sclosest collaborators) – with the majority supplied by the charactersthemselves (including MP Samuel Pepys, with the narrative appearing asthough it were 'torn' from his personal diary)! For the record, I havea number of other Neagle/Wilcox efforts in my collection – among whichis her second turn as Queen Victoria in SIXTY GLORIOUS YEARS (1938),which I may just get to in the current Easter epic marathon...
like ratio : 0.0
interest ratio: 0.125