The Main Event is a good example of a film that was a very successfulblockbuster on initial release making loads of money but that nowadayshas almost been completely forgotten. I can only surmise that this isbecause (a) it's a film very much of its time and (b) despite beingpopular it probably wasn't actually that good. It's about a successfulperfume executive who is left penniless when her business partnerdisappears with all her money. All she has left is a contract with ahas-been boxer who has been living in a giant boxing glove house,living off her cash hand-outs. She makes him get back in the ring totry to earn her back some money but, as is the way, romance follows…After Rocky went supernova at the box office in 1976, boxing films werein fashion in the later part of the decade. I guess that partiallyexplains the plot of this one. It may also explain somewhat why thestoryline is pretty lame, as the whole boxing plot-line feels strangelynegligible like they have basically shoe-horned it in because it waspopular at the time. This means that for a sports movie it really isvery hard getting involved in the action. It's very difficult to reallycare about who wins, etc. The main event, as it were, really is there-uniting of Barbra Streisand and Ryan O'Neal for the first time sinceWhat's Up Doc? It has to be said though that this pales prettysignificantly in comparison to that film. While it does adopt a similarsilly tone, it doesn't have as good a plot, characters or script; whiledirector Howard Zieff is no Peter Bogdanovich. And it may besuperficial to say but the fashions and hairstyles of 1979 were fairlyatrocious compared to 1972 – compare how Streisand looks in both filmsif you need proof. Those big perms sure were popular in the disco agefor some reason that's for sure! Anyway, the film itself isentertaining enough, despite being pretty underwhelming. Streisand andO'Neal are always good to watch and they try to make the most of whatthey've got, even if it isn't really a lot. It all winds up with anending that is quite poorly thought out, although the film has been sosilly beforehand that it doesn't really damage it as much as it should.
like ratio : 0.0
interest ratio: 0.07142857142857142