For 15 years, I had my laser disc copy of Out of the Blue stored away,plastic shrink wrap still on, with two Camelot Music price stickers on,one red Camelot logo above a $14.88 sell price, another black logoshowing $5.99. Camelot used to have video and music stores in manymalls in the Ft. Lauderdale, Florida area before it went out ofbusiness. I may have bought this laser at the Camelot store in theBroward Mall. The laser cardboard sleeve had a hole punched in theupper right hand corner, the mark of a remaindered LD. I finally gotaround to looking at this movie, and the movie is less than the sum ofits parts.The title credit for Out of the Blue identifies Bryan Foy in charge ofproduction. Foy had been in charge of producing B movies for WarnerBros. until about 1941, when Jack Warner decided to make only A movies.Goodbye, Bryan, after 14 years your services are no longer wanted. ButFoy remembered the stars at Warners he worked with, so he hired GeorgeBrent and the still very pretty Ann Dvorak to star in this 1947 moviethat takes place mostly in Greenwich Village. The trouble is, Foy didnot hire any of the Warner Brothers early 1930s screenplay writers tohelp rewrite the script, a lame affair involving a wife who vanishes,some snoopy neighbors and attempts at screwball comedy. The verylimited movie budget Eagle-Lion provided meant cheap sets, few extrasand mostly interior shots.The early 1930s Warner Bros. movies were like capturing lightning in abottle, very difficult to do. In 1947, RKO made a crime picture,Riffraff, with former Warner Bros. star Pat O'Brien playing a toughprivate detective. O'Brien had previously played a tough policedetective in Warners' 1933 movie, Bureau of Missing Persons. RKO hadone of the former Warner Bros. top stars, but that wasn't enough, justas with Out of the Blue.Warner Bros. movies like Hey, Nellie! and Friends of Mr. Sweeney, bothset in Greenwich Village, had their comedy aspects but they alsoprovided a grim commentary to the Depression years. Both had subplotsinvolving crooked politicians. All Out of the Blue has are good lookingcharacters in search of a script.I still cannot figure out why the Turhan Bey character breaks the speedlimit while transporting a steamer trunk with what he thinks is a deadbody in it. Naturally a motorcycle cop stops him to give him a speedingticket. When asked, Bey tells the cop the trunk has a body in it, whichthe cop takes as a joke. How clever you Hollywood screenplay writersare. Out of the Blue has some fine actors in it who deserved bettermaterial. Hopefully, none of the actors' paychecks bounced.
like ratio : 0.2608695652173913
interest ratio: 3.2857142857142856