I just saw The Order and I thought the movie was not only a great storyandplot but cinematically beautiful.I think the movie is a story that helps explain Gods master plan(fictionally of course). The movie starts out with a priest, Alex Bernie(Heath Ledger) searching for his place in life. Basically he doesn\'t knowwho he is. He is not a man who questions his faith but a man who questionshis purpose.In my opinion the movie isn\'t about the rise of a new Sin Eater but anapocalyptic description of the rise of the Anti Christ and the beginningofthe battle of Armageddon. My take on the movie is deeper than what thestoryline of the film outlines because it makes me recall my memories of Sundayschool of the Catholic Church and the different things that were taught tome there about religion.The movie makes sense if you focus on some key items related to theCatholicreligion:Gods gift of his only sonThe death and resurrection of ChristThe promise of Christ to take on the sin of manAn understanding of Purgatory and its meaningThe Anti-Christ\'s role in the apocalypseThe power it will take to open the gates of heavenBy no means do I intend to take a fictional movie and convey this to bescriptural enlightenment. I just would like to get other peoples takes onthe movie and see how it could be analyzed amongst people who haveinterestin such things. Personally I loved the story because it was able to depictthe possibility of a much higher plan in the scheme of things plus thecinematography was great.I think a lot of people focus on the story within the movie, which initselfis very bland. A SIN EATER doesn\'t make any sense and is not veryappealingbut if you were to look at that person as not an evil force intent onoverturning Gods rule but the more like the climax of Gods great plan itwill make the movie a lot more appealing.God gave his son to man and now gods son returns to him with enough ofmanspower to rule over the new kingdom and open the gates of purgatory. Ithinkthat is an amazing story and it was told well.I believe that the "Sin Eaters" refusal to consume the Black Popes sin andallow him entrance into Heaven was the beginning of the apocalypse. Therewas specific wording in the movie that brought me to this conclusion and Ifeel fairly certain that this was what the writer was trying to convey.Thesin eater did not need to know the Popes sin because he was already strongenough to understand the truth of everything from the crucifixion ofChristto today\'s events.I think there were quite a few items in the movie that indicated the SinEater was a derivation of Christ. The tip of a Roman Soldiers Sword killedChrist vs. the only way to free a Sin Eater of his collected sin was tokillhim with a knife which looked very similar to the tip of spear. Thewriting,which was used in the ritual of Sin eating, was written at the head andfeetof the individual being absolved of his sins vs. the writing seen on thatofthe crucifix at both the head and feet of Christ. The burden of carryingthesin of man, a torment that seems like it would be overwhelming for anyindividual who has not already promised to do so such asChrist.And for those of you who haven\'t seen this movie another good reason toseeit is because it also stars Shannyn Sossamon who has got to be one of thehottest females on the planet.
like ratio : 0.0
interest ratio: 0.009852216748768473