Yes, so Bonny and Clyde, they ain\'t!  But it was never meant to be that.... And, if you never really were around during the late 70\'s, you won\'t get theconcept either....Sure, we\'ve all read and re-read the plot concept - upper middle incomebracket Dick (George Segal) loses his job - just at the time with he and hiswife Jane (Jane Fonda) are playing \'keep up with the Joneses\' - by buyingand buying and buying everything that his salary will afford: there\'s thenew home (typical of ANYTHING in Orange County at the time), the cars, thehousehold furnishings and electronic gadgets, and, oh, yes, let\'s not forgetthe LAWN!  One of the things that you have to remember is back then, whenyou bought a new house - it was just that - the house.  No landscaping, nopre-made pools and backyard paradises - nothing.  Just a house anddirt...Anyway, so Dick loses his job and they are in fear of the possibility oflosing their life....  They try all the normal and legal ways of getting by- welfare, food stamps, loans, and on and no - and nothing works out.... They turn to a life of crime when they see how easy it can be done...  andthey become quite successful at it (watch the end credits as their carsmultiply!)...So, it\'s not a hilarious movie!  Big deal!  It\'s got enough funny momentsand quick one liners to work....  It\'s main comical focus, though, is pokingfun at the establishment of the times: how big business (aerospace, at thetime) uses up it\'s people and then just drops them when times go soft, bigreligion (stealing the money from the televangelists!!!), the inadequacy ofgovernment, and on and on...  Don\'t look at the film from a 2004 (or 03, 0201, Y2k) perspective...  Think back to the days of disco and the boom of thelate 70s...  You\'ll have a laugh and a half...Oh, and if the movie was SO bad?  Why is Jim Carrey mounting a new versionwith himself and Cameron Diaz as the leads?  So, it must have been at leastSOMEWHAT humorous to warrant a recreation!A 4 **** out of 5.
like ratio : 0.3333333333333333
interest ratio: 0.14634146341463414