Like many imports into American television Iron Chef America is apathetic shadow of the original. Mark Dacascos, as The Chairman, is thenephew of the Japan\'s Chairman Kaga but exhibits not a soupcon of theself-mocking humor of his uncle. Dacascos is a lauded martial artsexpert but in this context his posturing is hokey in the extreme. AltonBrown, though interesting on Good Eats, as sole commentator for IronChef America is boring as is the roving reporter. The two commentators,Kenji Fukui and Yukio Hattori, along with the guest commentators/judgesare key to the original show\'s appeal. The snappy rapport of Fukuisan,Doc, and many of the frequent guests entertains as they make astuteobservations, lame jokes, and bicker affably. The Japanese Iron Chefsare entertaining, have engaging personalities, and actually take a handin the cooking of every dish themselves. Yes, they have assistants butthat is just what they do, assist, not the preparation of entiredishes. As for the American impostors, Flay displays symptoms ofsmugness and arrogance and Batalli is sweet but unappealing. Morimotois still a great Iron Chef but he should have followed Wolfgang Puck\'slead and gotten out of this debacle while he still had his dignity. Iunderstand that in a restaurant preparing the food is not their rolebut this is a cooking competition and every dish should be basicallyprepared by the chef, but these American Iron Chefs do not even take ahand in many of the dishes which are expertly prepared by theirtalented pastry chefs, sous-chefs and/or assistants. These talentedunderlings and some of the guest competitors are the only redeemingquality this show offers and they do some amazing things. The Japanesejudges have relatively unbiased palates and are always polite even asthey are voicing their criticisms. They also express themselvesbeautifully and savor the nuances of the dishes. Food Network shouldchoose judges who have a more cosmopolitan palate. The job of a criticis to be discerning not to be mean-spirited and sarcastic. You can calla spade a spade without calling it a darned old shovel. Brutal honestyis not a virtue I care to see promoted. Much of the personality of theJapanese import must be credited to the actors who performed the voiceovers. They must have had a ball in taping as the dialogue isfrequently ridiculous, but ridiculously entertaining!
like ratio : 0.26153846153846155
interest ratio: 6.5