One of my favorite things about this one is seeing W.C. juggle. Hestarted out his show business career as a juggler, and in this movieyou get to see some of his act. Even after a couple of decades ofdrink, he still does a creditable job, to say the least. The cigar boxroutine is a sight to remember.It also contains one of the oddest-named characters in any movie,Cleopatra Pepperday, played wonderfully by Jan Duggan. The scene whereshe sings Gathering Up The Shells By The Seashore is wonderful. Or whenshe's rehearsing her "line" in the play, "Here comes the prince!" Thereis also a fascinating little cultural artifact within the movie -- aproduction of The Drunkard, a 19th century hit, no doubt popular whenWilliam Claude was a mere lad.As per usual, W.C. Fields is incredible. The fascinating thing abouthim, to me, is the subtlety of his performance. It doesn't LOOK subtle,I'll grant you, but what strikes me is that there are many layers tohis performing in movies. On the one hand, there are the huge gesturesand loud, familiar voice, but on the other hand there are the mutteredasides, the precise facial reactions, the absurd failure to accomplishthe simplest tasks, like put his hat on his head without getting itcaught on a cane. That's what I mean by subtle, you almost miss it andthen you can't explain to yourself what it is that is so incrediblyfunny about what he's doing.There's a bit of controversy about the scene where he kicks Baby LeRoyin the bottom, knocking him across the hall. There are many stories ofW.C.'s working with Baby LeRoy. Apparently, on one occasion, Fieldspoured gin into Baby LeRoy's bottle, and when the child began throwingup and falling over, W.C. snorted, "I told you he was no trouper!" I think it's awful that so many of W.C. Fields' films are not yetreleased on DVD. This is an oversight that should be rectified soon, wehope!
=============
like ratio : 1.0
interest ratio: 0.5217391304347826
moviename: The Old Fashioned Way
number of likes: 12
number of interests : 12