"The Adventures of Robin Hood" was not a children\'s program, not even ayoung people\'s program.  Consider its credits, if you doubt myassessment. Its directors included Daniel Birt, Robert Day, DonChaffey, Terry Bishop, Terence Fisher, Arthur Crabtree, Peter Maxwell,Ralph Smart and Bernard Knowles, many known for TV and feature filmwork. The writing corps included some blacklisted Hollywood filmwriters as well as highly-competent British scenarists including intheir numbers Milton Schlesinger, Ring Lardner Jr., Ralph Smart, JohnDyson, John Cousins, Arthur Behr, Raymond Bowers, Eric Heath,Anne Rodney, Leslie Poynter. Paul Symonds, Sidney Wells, Ian Lartain,Ian McLellan Hunter and C.D. Phillips. The story sets up anhistorically false but dramatically useful opposition--the Saxons ofEngland championing the cause of the imprisoned honest King RichardCoeur de Lion, set against his usurping, nefarious brother Prince John,who is in league with their Norman overlords and crooked sheriffs (outonly to steal land and wealth and ready to enslave the populace for abrass farthing).  The very fine continuing cast included handsome andable leading man Richard Greene, lovely Bernadette O\'Farrell and latervery good actress Patricia Driscoll as Maid Marian Fitzwalter; thesplendid Shakespearean actor Alexander Gauge playing the definitiveFriar Tuck, with Archie Duncan as Little John, Paul Eddington as WillScarlet, Alan Wheatley as a marvelously subtle and villainous Sheriffof Nottingham, Victor Woolf as Derwent and Simone Lovell as the braveand helpful Maid Joan. Several fine actors played Prince John,including Donald Pleasance, Ian Hunter Robin\'s friend Sir Richard andJill Esmond Queen Eleanor. Regular guests included Paul Eddington(doing double duty), Willoughby Gray, John Dearth, Arthur Skinner,Charles Stapley plus guest stars of the caliber of Edward Mulhare, andLeo McKern. Hannah Weinstein was executive producer, with theparticipation of Sidney Cole as line producer, Thelma Connell aassociate and Richard Greene. Edwin Astley, Albert Elms and SidneyKeith Russell provided the music; Carl Sigman wrote the popular titlesong. The cinematography for the show, which ranged from hood to verygood, was done by Gerald Gibbs, Ken Hodges and Michael Reed at varioustimes. The production designer was Peter Proud, and the art directorsProud, John Blezard and Peter Mullins. Gabriel Toyne was in charge ofduels and battles with Brenda Gardner in charge of wardrobe. So manypeople have happy memories of watching this show as young people, Ibelieve they would be surprised how entertaining the and engrossing theshow remain. The comedy was frequently very successful, the dialogueabove average and the motivations of the characters extraordinarilyclear. And, frequently, memorable. Because the show was about importantmatters to realists, the scenes deal with essentials; and this makesthem more consistently interesting and rich than is usual in atelevision show. This is a much-loved television series, for manyreasons; I was privileged to wait each week for its episodes when I wasgrowing up. I have seen many since that time, and they are stillenjoyable, as fiction and as good-spirited fun for discriminatingviewers.
=============
like ratio : 0.9
interest ratio: 0.6666666666666666
moviename: `` The Adventures of Robin Hood ''
number of likes: 18
number of interests : 20