Since musicals have both gone out of fashion and are incrediblyexpensive to make without all the talent needed to make one undercontract to a studio, I doubt we will ever get a real life story ofEnrico Caruso. But if everything else was in place it was no accident that noHollywood studio attempted the task until Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer had MarioLanza under contract. No one else could have done it, I doubt whetherit will ever be tried again.And why should it. I think Enrico Caruso himself would have beensatisfied as to how his singing was portrayed on screen. For his tenorvoice was his life, his reason for being on the earth. To say that liberties were taken with his life is to be modest. Caruso,like the man who portrayed him, was a man of large appetites althoughwith a lot more self discipline. He had numerous relationships withseveral women and fathered two out of wedlock sons who are not in thisfilm. His contribution to the recording industry is treated as almost anafterthought. He's shown in a recording studio once late in his life.Actually he started recording right around the turn of the last centuryand together with Irish tenor John McCormack for RCA Victor made therecording industry what it became.When Caruso and McCormack were at their heights you had to practicallyinherit a ticket to see either of them perform live. But a lot ofimmigrant Italian and Irish families had a phonograph and a record orthree of either of these men. It's why both became the legends thatthey are.What the film does have is some beautifully staged operatic arias doneby Mario Lanza, a taste of what he might have become had he thediscipline of a Caruso to stick to opera. The Great Caruso won an Oscarfor sound recording and received nominations for costume and setdesign.Mario himself helped popularize the film with an RCA Red Seal album ofsongs from The Great Caruso. Unfortunately due to contractualobligations we couldn't get an actual cast album with Ann Blyth,Dorothy Kirsten, and Jarmila Novotna also.Though Blyth sang it in the film, Lanza had a big hit recording of TheLoveliest Night of the Year further helping to popularize The GreatCaruso.If you're looking for a life of Enrico Caruso, this ain't it. If youare looking for a great artist singing at the height of his career,than you should not miss The Great Caruso.
=============
like ratio : 0.9411764705882353
interest ratio: 0.7727272727272727
moviename: The Great Caruso
number of likes: 16
number of interests : 17