I think Pinocchio is Disney\'s best animated movie ever made (as alreadyspeculated by many other cartoon fans). The movie just so happens to be anartistic advancement over Snow White, the movie of which the Disney artistsinitiated their most expensive animation techniques at the time. Pinocchiois partially known as the film of which they successfully mastered themulti-plane camera filming, which gives the background art breathtakingstrokes of realism.Pinocchio has much more than beautiful artwork. It also has creative writing(borrowed respectively from the original novel), great characterdevelopment, fresh humor, wonderful music, and emotional impact.Every character, ranging from Pinocchio and Jiminy Cricket to Stromboli, theCoachman, and Monstro, has helped make this a milestone in Americanfilmography. I like Pinocchio, because his innocence is used instead ofignorance as the cause for his downfall in both incidents (first withStromboli, and later with his trip to Pleasure Island). This personifies howmany bad things we might do in life are derived from our GOOD intentions,instead of bad. But my favorite character would have to be Jiminy Cricket,who\'s probably the smartest character in this whole presentation.The story itself is so emotionally compelling, one would wonder if CarloCollodi used the Bible for a little inspiration. A lot of what we see inPinocchio would seem like it. The protagonist (Pinocchio) is brought to lifeupon his dad\'s (Geppetto) wish, but must prove himself a good person beforehe can become a real boy. The one who witnesses his coming-to-life (JiminyCricket) is appointed his conscience by the life-bearer (The Blue Fairy).Pinoke is tempted to do bad, what seems good at the time (by Honest John,Gideon, Stromboli, and the Coachman), and befriends one who is eventuallycondemned from following the wrong path (Lampwick). Pinoke narrowly escapesfrom being completely condemned, and has to use his mind to save his fatherfrom the beast (Monstro). Along with Figaro & Cleo as supporting players,this storyline goes on and on bringing joy where there\'s joy, grief wherethere\'s grief, fear where there\'s fear, and so on, to the point ofstimulating the notion that Pinocchio is a morality tale derived from theBible. We may never know for sure.Walt Disney has conquered the art of retelling classic novels more thantwice, and here he especially succeeds with flying colors. Pinocchio went onto win 2 Academy Awards following its 1940 debut, and several other statesof recognition as recently as the mid-1990\'s. This is also one of the manypieces of evidence proving how wonderful Walt was (despite scorn fromcynics, serious critics and fun-hating intellectuals).Pinocchio truly is a milestone, not just in American animation, but Americanfilmography in general. But beware: the current Disney Studio has beenchurning out terrible sequels to vintage animated films. They already gotPeter Pan, Cinderella, and Lady and the Tramp, and more are due in the nearfuture. We must make sure that Disney doesn\'t destroy this movie. As I saidin my Sleeping Beauty review, some people just don\'t know when to LEAVE WELLENOUGH ALONE. Again, Pinocchio is a masterpiece that has touched the heartsof the past few generations, and will continue to do the same for manyfuture generations.
like ratio : 0.9090909090909091
interest ratio: 0.35947712418300654