I have long been a fan of Film Noir. I consider this film to be uniqueand one of the best. The first and only time I saw it in a theater wasin 1949 when I was 14. It was titled "Gun Crazy". I thought it wasgreat but it didn't receive rave reviews or last long in hometowntheaters. I understand they renamed it "Deadly Is The Female" in 1950for its release in England, reason being that co-star Peggy Cummins wasBritish and emphasizing the female star would be better box-office.In the years that passed I wanted to see it again but it didn't appearon TV or later on any videotape that I knew of. In the 1983 RichardGeer film "Breathless" there is a chase scene where he is trying toescape by way of the stage behind a movie screen. On that screen wasplaying what I immediately recognized as "Gun Crazy". Over the yearssince then I have continued to look for the movie but was unable tofind it. Less than a month ago I found it on DVD and purchased anexcellent copy. I found that the movie is just as good as I rememberit.The film is essentially a story of a boy named Bart Tare (Russ Tamblyn)who loves guns for sport but refuses to harm any living being withthem. After stealing one from a local store, he is caught and sent to areformatory. The story continues four reformatory years plus one armyhitch later when an adult Bart (John Dall) is discharged. He and somefriends go to a cheap carnival where he sees and immediately falls fora trick shot artist, Annie Laurie Starr (Peggy Cummins). He beats herin a shooting contest but is offered a job in the act rather than theprize he was supposed to win.Bart is unaware of her dark past, which includes hints of prostitutionand the murder of a man in St. Louis. After a showdown with the jealouscarnival owner they run off together and get married. When their moneyruns out, Bart wants to get a job but Annie Laurie's mind runs in adifferent direction, armed robbery. Reluctantly, Bart gives in and theyset off on a spree of low paying stickups. By this time, Bart isincreasingly aware that Annie Laurie has homicidal tendencies that heis barely able to keep under control. They plan a big-time robberyduring which she kills two people without his knowledge. The rest ofthe movie deals with their flight from justice and ultimate payment fortheir crimes. In all, it is a classic scenario of "Bad Girl" leads a"Good Boy" into evil.Personal opinion is that John Dall did a better acting job in thismovie than he did in "Rope". In a bit of self-analysis I must admitthat I have long been fascinated by "Wicked Women". This movie aloneplaced Peggy Cummins among my favorite "femme fatales", which includedthe queen of mean, Barbara Stanwyck, Marlene Dietrich, Beverly Michaelsand other notables.If you like classic film noir, it is a good movie to remember and seeagain.
like ratio : 0.9130434782608695
interest ratio: 0.23958333333333334