In 1933 Edward G. Robinson had finally essayed a comedy, THE LITTLEGIANT, with passable results. There he tackled the plot of a formerracketeer discovering how unworthy the leaders of "good" society couldactually be. The same type of a plot would be used again in Robinson'sA SLIGHT CASE OF MURDER. But in 1935 Robinson was able to tackle avariant on gangster comedy. It was closer to Dr. Jeckyll and Mr. Hyde,as he played good guy wimp Arthur "Jonesy" Jones and public enemy # 1Killer Mannion. Identical twins, they find they are drawn together by aphysical chance. Mannion discovers that Jones looks so like him that hemight be able to avoid police surveillance by switching places withJones (who, for safety sake, won't try to stop him). Jones finds hisjob at jeopardy, his safety at jeopardy, and his girl friend "Bill"(Jean Arthur) possibly at jeopardy.There are some choice moments in the film - Ed Brophy, as the chiefwitness against Mannion, wandering away to his doom accompanied by"Jonesy" (or was it "Jonesy"), and the antics of two particularly dullcomic cops (James Donlon and - surprisingly bright in the role - ArthurHohl). Robinson as patsy and fiend is equally effective, particularlyas Mannion decides the time has come to get rid of his harmlessdoppelganger and take over his place in the world. But will hesucceed...or will "Jonesy's" ineptitude and timidity upset his plans.The director of the film was John Ford - it was his first film witheither Robinson (who only showed up again in a supporting part inCHEYENNE AUTUMN)and his only one with Arthur. As such it reminds us ofhis film ARROWSMITH, which was his only film with Ronald Colman andHelen Hayes. In both cases he did well with his stars, and one wisheshe had tried a second major film with Robinson, Arthur, Colman, andHayes later on. But at least he did make these two films.
=============
like ratio : 0.8421052631578947
interest ratio: 0.5588235294117647
moviename: The Whole Town 's Talking
number of likes: 16
number of interests : 19