I won't comment on what has been written by several others here,regarding the noir-ish qualities of the material. I do want to mentionsome things that caught me off guard, in a very good way, from themoment the film began. First off, the writers and director de Toth wereconfident enough in their material not to spoonfeed their audience.Indeed, the first few minutes are so opaque it seems as if we may havecome in in the middle of the film. In reality, we've come in in themiddle, not of the film, but of the characters' lives, and thefilmmakers allow us to figure out what's going on much as a strangerarriving in town would have to figure out what this drama is that'soccurring around him. Adding to the intelligent and innovative approachto the story is the cinematography of Russell Harlan. Harlan, who shotRed River, Lust for Life, The Big Sky, and To Kill a Mockingbird,certainly knew how to place a camera and light a scene. For de Toth,Harlan's camera moves almost constantly, innumerable dolly shots (farmore than in a typical film of this day) both reveal and obfuscate thesettings in such a way as to keep the viewer always a littleoff-balance as to where the action is moving next. It's a skillfulmeans of unsettling the viewer. The casting as well performs similarly.Joel McCrea is a familiar figure in Western leading roles, but herehe's both a reformed drunk and so soft-spoken and comparatively passiveas to be almost the antithesis of what we expect. Veronica Lake getsone soft scene with her hair down and almost peekabooing, but for therest of the film it's up tight on her head, and she's up tight in therole. She's an interesting case, a pitiable femme fatale, a nice girlat first pushed then willingly galloping down the wrong road. CharlieRuggles, typically a comic father type, here is stern but notheartless, wrongheaded but goodhearted. And the best piece of off-beatcasting in the film is light comedian Don DeFore as the rascally,promiscuous, and deadly Bill, a gunman with a seductive smile and thegrim good humor that one both fears and wants to protect. DeFore'sperformance is the best I've ever seen him give, and it made me wishhe'd done more like this. Thankfully (and oddly), the script gives himplenty of screen time, much more in fact (toward the end) than onewould expect, given that he's not the lead in the picture. There havebeen bad good-guys like Bill in scores of Westerns before and since,but few with the charisma and style that Don DeFore brings to this one.All in all, I was amazed by the complexity and shades of gray in thisfilm, which I completely expected to be just another good oldshoot-em-up. Well worth watching.
=============
like ratio : 0.92
interest ratio: 1.7857142857142858
moviename: Ramrod
number of likes: 23
number of interests : 25