David Belasco is not a forgotten name - he played too important a rolein Broadway from 1880 - 1931 (when he died). He was a prolificplaywright, and two of his works still retain the stage - although asoperas (MADAME BUTTERFLY and THE GIRL OF THE GOLDEN WEST, both composedby Puccini). But his real forte was directing and producing, for he gotthe most out of his stars. As Claude Rains says in this film, whenasked if he could save Mrs. Leslie Carter\'s acting ability, "I\'m DavidBelasco! I can make a telegraph pole look good!"Belasco was not flawless. He was an egomaniac, who insisted on totalobedience to his direction if anyone sought him as an acting mentor (asMrs. Carter did). He was also determined to be memorable as apersonality, going about in a suit reminiscent of the Roman CatholicChurch (he basically dressed like a priest). While he did improve theacting of his period, his taste in drama tended to be of the melodramasand sentimental play variety. Brooks Atkinson (in his book, Broadway)dismissed him as a ham and poseur, but he was better in bringing aprofessional structure to acting. Too frequently in that period actorswere not as prepared or controlled to give their audiences theirmoney\'s worth of good acting.Mrs. Leslie Carter was a minor socialite from the midwest who wanted togo on stage. In the movie she is played (rather well) by MiriamHopkins. Mrs. Carter got involved in a messy divorce from her husband,in which she lost custody of her only son. Under Belasco\'s tutalage shebecame one of the leading female stars of her age. She did try toresume her relationship with the son, but she was so involved inbuilding her art and stage reputation her son was nearly ten when shesaw him again. The relationship was never resumed. As for her career itblossomed, but she decided to remarry. Belasco expected to be consultedand wasn\'t, so he broke with her.After a decade of floundering, a rapproachment with Belasco wasarranged, and her career resumed it\'s previous success.As an interesting slice of theatrical history THE LADY WITH RED HAIR(which, ironically, is a black and white film) is worth watching. Rainsand Hopkins give their typically best work in their lead roles. I woulddefinitely recommend the film.
=============
like ratio : 0.9333333333333333
interest ratio: 1.5
moviename: Lady with Red Hair
number of likes: 14
number of interests : 15