Suspense doesn\'t promise to live up to its generic title until its lasthalf-hour, when director Frank Tuttle (This Gun for Hire his only othernoir) turns up the voltage and generates some, yes, real suspense. AMonogram release with a big budget (for Monogram), the movie casts theunlikely Belita – an ice-skating \'novelty\' star like Sonja Henie –against Barry Sullivan; they would reunite the next year in TheGangster. Albert Dekker and Bonita Granville fill out the otherprincipal roles.Dekker\'s the impresario of The Ice Parade, a revue in which his wifeBelita stars. A peanut vendor (Sullivan) offers a suggestion forsprucing up the act (a ring of swords through which Belita will jump)and gets offered in turn a management job. Dekker can\'t help but noticethe sparks between his wife and his new hire, especially when Sullivanturns up uninvited at their mountain lodge. When they\'re off frolickingin the winterscape, he takes at shot a Sullivan but triggers anavalanche, which buries him.Or does it? Back in her Los Angeles penthouse, Belita senses hispresence. Sullivan, meanwhile, copes with another specter from his past– Bonita Granville, whom he ditched in Chicago (he has an unsavorybackground which she threatens to divulge – though never to us).What with all this baggage, the romance sours, and Belita begins tosuspect Sullivan of having killed Dekker, if in fact he\'s still amongthe living....With Suspense, you have to take the bad with the good. The skatingnumbers, while eye-popping (a left-handed compliment), bring the actionto a halt every quarter-hour or so. On the other hand, Tuttleanticipates by a year Anthony Mann\'s basement light in Desperate,swinging like a pendulum from glare to shadow. Still, he plays fast andloose with a key plot point – Dekker\'s reemergence. The dance of theseven veils he performs adds a supernatural touch to the spookyatmosphere, but it falls short of success: there\'s information missingthat by every right ought to be included.One last note: Suspense marks the last movie, out of well over twohundred, for portly, bassoon-voiced Eugene Palette, a welcome – and allbut unavoidable – presence through the 1930s and early 1940s. In this,his swan song, he shows himself once more to be every pound the pro.
=============
like ratio : 0.9583333333333334
interest ratio: 2.4
moviename: Suspense
number of likes: 23
number of interests : 24