A spoiled rich boy falls overboard & emerges from the seaintothe world of the CAPTAINS COURAGEOUS, the rough & honestfishermen who ply the waters of the North Atlantic formonthson end.Rudyard Kipling\'s classic novel of maturation & responsibilityhas been expanded & updated and turned into a wonderfulfilmby MGM. The production values, especially those dealingwiththe fishing boat sequences, are exceptional.After the first half hour, where we are introduced to theboy\'sbad behavior at home, school, father\'s office & aboardtheluxury liner, the film arrives at the heart of the matter withtheintroduction of the fisherman and their rough, dangerouswayof life.Freddie Bartholomew, luminous face & shining eyes aglow,isthe very picture of boyish innocence. The fact that MGMgavehim top billing over the powerhouse cast shows the kindofconfidence they had in their child star. Although his properEnglish accent is a bit out of place and his sweetness makeshisinitial bratty behavior a bit of a stretch, once he\'s firmlyensconced on the trawler and his life lessons are beinglearned,it is difficult to think of any other young actor of his era intherole.His lessons come mainly from Spencer Tracy, who is beyondpraise as Manuel, the stalwart Portuguese fisherman. Noble,earthy, lighthearted, honest, these were attributes Tracycouldsink his teeth into & he delivers a performance of heroicproportions. Good-natured & loyal, singing joyously tohishurdy-gurdy, his Manuel is still fiercely protective of his`liddlefish,\' seeing at once the qualities the boy has to offer, onceheshapes up. Audiences surrender to Tracy completely (fakeaccent and all) and his scenes with young Bartholomew areespecially tender. The subsequent Best Actor Oscar forhisperformance here was very well deserved.Lionel Barrymore, as the crusty, wise old captain of thefishingboat, is a delight. In one of the last roles in which he hadtheuse of his legs, he is completely believable as a Massachusettsseaman. Like Tracy, he inhabits his part, giving an over-the-topperformance that is completely appropriate. He embodiesthekind of man anyone would feel confident to have at thehelmduring a sea storm.The excellence of the cast is evidenced by having CharleyGrapewin, John Carradine & Mickey Rooney all on board ascrew members; each is given a chance to display their talents,as is Melvyn Douglas as Bartholomew\'s preoccupied father.Movie mavens will recognize Billy Gilbert as a soda fountainjerk, as well as Christian Rub & Jimmy Conlin as fisherman,alluncredited.
like ratio : 0.9090909090909091
interest ratio: 0.4125