That was quite a catch that Spencer Tracy made that day in the GrandBanks of Newfoundland.Young Freddie Bartholomew the spoiled son of tycoon Melvyn Douglasfalls overboard off an ocean liner. By the merest chance, Spencer Tracyis in his dory fishing and reels in young Bartholomew. After his catchis made, Tracy returns to the boat that captain Lionel Barrymore iscommanding. It\'s quite a culture shock to the lad. He\'s fallen in literally with abunch of people who work for a living and have no real interest in himbecause his Daddy\'s the richest guy around. Truth is Melvyn Douglas hasbeen neglecting the kid for business and young Bartholomew is notreally as bad a kid as originally thought. He joins the crew andbecomes close to Tracy.Of Tracy\'s two Oscar winning performances, the part of Manuel thePortugese fisherman, transplanted to New England is a bit more showythan Father Flanagan. It\'s a good blend of the roughneck charactersTracy was used to playing and the new father figure persona he adoptedin San Francisco. By necessity Tracy had to adopt an accent if for no other reasons thanto distinguish him from the other members of Lionel Barrymore\'s crewand their clipped New England speech. The Portugese are a hearty,seafaring group though and I certainly never heard any complaint thathis performance was in any way demeaning. Manuel\'s a simple guy, butwith a good way of life and an appreciation for the important thingslife has to offer. That is what he imparts to Freddie Bartholomew.Melvyn Douglas does not get enough recognition for this film. Just asFreddie Bartholomew is not a bad kid at heart, Douglas is not a bad maneither. His performance as a man who lost his only child and then hadhim miraculously returned from the dead is touching. And the sceneswhere he tries to repair his relationship with young Bartholomew arepoignant.Lionel Barrymore is the perfect conception of a hearty New Englandfishing boat captain. As Freddie Bartholomew watches the interactionbetween Barrymore and Mickey Rooney, father and son, sharing not justplaytime, but the father\'s profession, he realizes what he and MelvynDouglas have missed out on. Of the crew also pay close attention to John Carradine who resents andthen accepts Bartholomew with the crew.The fishing scenes are well done and Director Victor Fleming gives youa good picture of life on a commercial fishing vessel.Captains Courageous is a fine family film in every sense of the word.
=============
like ratio : 0.8636363636363636
interest ratio: 0.55
moviename: Captains Courageous
number of likes: 38
number of interests : 44