The historical epics which were so popular in the fifties and earlysixties frequently had a religious theme. Some were based on storiestaken directly from the Bible ("The Ten Commandments", "Solomon andSheba", "King of Kings"), while others tried to convey a Christianmessage indirectly. Thus the central character of "Spartacus" istreated as a metaphorical Christ-figure, and "The Egyptian" drawsparallels between Christianity and the monotheistic religion of Atenismwhich briefly flourished under the heretical Pharaoh Akhnaten."Demetrius and the Gladiators" is one of a number of films (the mostfamous is "Ben Hur", but others include "The Robe", to which"Demetrius" is a sequel, "Quo Vadis" and "The Fall of the RomanEmpire") which deal with the early days of the Christian church and itspersecution by the Roman emperors. The stories told by such films werenormally fictitious, but were set against a background of historicalfact. The central character, Demetrius, is a former slave who, afterassaulting a soldier who is molesting his girlfriend Lucia, issentenced to fight in the arena as a gladiator. This causes himdifficulties as he is a Christian whose moral code will not permit himto kill another man, even in self-defence. He survives, however,largely because he attracts the attention of Messalina, the wife ofClaudius, uncle of the Emperor Caligula. Later, believing that Luciahas accidentally been killed by another gladiator, Demetrius renounceshis Christian faith, and fights fiercely, killing the man he believesto have been responsible for her death and several others. His courageand skill with a sword lead to his being made a tribune in thePraetorian Guard, and he becomes Messalina's lover. As in "The Robe",the robe which Christ wore to His crucifixion plays an important partin the film; Caligula wants to get his hands on it because he believesthat it has magical powers and that it will give him the secret ofeternal life. Several of the epics of this period combined, incongruously, animproving religious message with a good deal of eroticism, with muchbare female flesh on display- examples include "Solomon and Sheba","Esther and the King" and "Salome", where we get to see the famousdance of the seven veils, but it is made clear that, contrary to theBiblical version of the story, Rita Hayworth's character is in fact avirtuous heroine who only is flashing her legs in public in a desperateattempt to save John the Baptist from his fate. There are elements ofthis strange combination of godliness and sexiness in "Demetrius", butthe sexiness is very much downplayed. Messalina's notorious promiscuityis alluded to rather than shown on screen, and the scene between thegladiators and the women brought in to entertain them may be an orgy,but it is a very decorous one. The film-makers were clearly moreinterested in the element of godliness, and, unlike some films of thistype, "Demetrius" raises genuine moral issues about pacifism,non-violence and Christian forgiveness. Demetrius himself is a man who goes through a crisis of faith andabandons his Christian beliefs in favour of an ethic based on revengeand worldly ambition. His conscience, however, is troubled, especiallyafter he is reproached by his old friend St Peter. He is a more complexand interesting figure than many epic heroes, so it is unfortunate thatthe part was played by Victor Mature, an actor whose success oftenseemed to owe more to his ruggedly masculine good looks and his virilephysique than to his acting technique. Susan Hayward (an actress whocould often look bored and listless when asked to play roles that didnot interest her) makes a weak Messalina. Neither give their worstperformance (in Hayward's case that must surely have been "TheConqueror"), and Mature brings a certain rough sincerity to his part,but I felt that the film might have been improved with other actors inthese roles.Nevertheless, there was much I enjoyed about the film. Michael Renniewas appropriately dignified as Peter, played as a sort of asceticphilosopher, although I would agree with the reviewer who pointed outthat it would be hard to imagine him ever working as a fisherman. Ialso liked William Marshall as Glycon, the former African king nowforced to fight as a gladiator, who befriends Demetrius. ("Spartacus",a better film than "Demetrius" although it owes something to it, alsofeatures a sympathetic black gladiator who befriends the hero). Jay Robinson, who played Caligula, has been criticised by somereviewers for overacting, although I must say I liked his performance.Historians have doubted whether the real Caligula was actually insane,although he was undoubtedly cruel and eccentric, but in the context ofthis film he is definitely presented as a lunatic, a man who hasliterally been driven mad by power to the point where he believeshimself to be a god. (Not even Hitler went that far). There is aninteresting contrast with a modern epic, "Gladiator", in which JoaquinPhoenix plays another tyrannical Roman Emperor, Commodus, as abasically weak and insecure young man. Although Phoenix's performanceworks well in the context of that particular film, the way the role ofCaligula was written called for something quite different- the sort ofranting, over-the-top performance which might be unfashionable now butwould have been less controversial in the fifties.Although the standard of the acting is mixed, I generally enjoyed thefilm. It does not reach the standard of the really great epics, such as"Spartacus" or "Ben-Hur", but it works well on the level of spectacle,with fine sets and costumes and some exciting scenes of gladiatorialcombat, and has a more intelligent script than many epics. 7/10
=============
like ratio : 0.8888888888888888
interest ratio: 0.5142857142857142
moviename: Demetrius and the Gladiators
number of likes: 16
number of interests : 18