Thoroughly Modern Flahertyby: Christopher M. McHughRobert Flaherty\'s second film on Eskimos, "Nanook of the North," is oneofthe world\'s first examples of a cinema verite\' / aesthetic expressionismdocumentary.   His first film outing into the Eastern Hudson Bay is nowlost(allmovie.com), "Nanook of the North" was his second attempt.    To dealwith the extreme cold Flaherty utilized two recently developed Akeleygyroscope cameras that required little lubrication so that he could tiltandpan (cinemaweb.com).  Flaherty clearly had a special place in his heartforthe Itivimuit people.  At times his documentary resembles a home movie,concentrating on Nanook\'s family\'s personality, rather than simply theactions they take part in.  He does this primarily through the use ofclose-ups and filming private moments; such as the family waking up.  Theaudience finds themselves smiling back at young Allegoo as he drinkscastoroil.In regards to the soundtrack for "Nanook," the VHS copy I viewed didn\'tseem to match up with the visuals.  When Nanook and his family are goingtobed, the music is so intense it seams like the family should be fightingabear, rather than nodding off for the night.  Perhaps this problem hasbeenremedied in the Criterion Collection\'s edition, which was released in1999on DVD (FYI available at half.com).The title cards in "Nanook" display, once again Flaherty\'s fondness forhissubject material.  Not only, Nanook\'s family, but Flaherty also seems todisplay a fondness for the Hudson Bay landscape.  Flaherty does thisthroughutilizing flowery language.  For example, when we see a shot of thehorizon,Flaherty\'s card reads: "the sun mocks them during the long winter(paraphrasing)."The lighting is excellent in "Nanook," due mostly in part to the factthatFlaherty staged sequences that couldn\'t be lit properly,  such asbuilding abigger (mock) igloo to accommodate his cameras and lights.  It is unclearwhether these shots were filmed closer to civilization, due to Flaherty\'suse of the Haulberg Electric Light Plant (Flaherty 1922)and its need forfuel.Flaherty attempts to make Nanook\'s family a symbol for the typical,1920\'sU.S. family, as (a typical U.S. family) might have lived if they were inNanook\'s family\'s snowshoes.  Flaherty even goes so far as to excludeNanook\'s second wife, Cunayou (CultureDose.com) [YAY! EXTRA CREDIT!] withthe exception of one particularly noticeable shot where the family isgetting out of bed.  Flaherty treated Nanook\'s family as though it mighthave been his own.  He even went so far as to show the family dailies sothat they could give him input.  Flaherty pointed out in his paper, "HowIfilmed Nanook of the North," that he shared much with the Itivimuit,including his gramophone, tea, tobacco and sea biscuits.  The Itivimuitresponded back by helping out Flaherty as much as possible, leaving extrafood for him and by making sure he was safe (Flaherty 1922).As far a cinematography goes "Nanook" holds up quite well.  As statedearlier, Flaherty was able to pull off pans and tilts, even in such acoldenvironment.  The shots are framed quite well, since most of the timeFlaherty didn\'t need to rip his equipment out in a moments notice.Nanookhimself, for the most part, seemed to indicate what was going to behappening every step of the way (before it actually happened).The pacing of "Nanook" seems to flow like rolling hills.  After muchactiontakes place Flaherty gently takes us down and puts us to bed with thefamily.  While such action as the seal hunt is built up with quite a bitofanticipation.  And when Nanook and his comrades struggle with the seal(for20 minutes in reality), the audience is left biting their nails.Upon viewing "Nanook" for a second time I realized how little has changedin U.S. society, as to their perceptions of those who live in anon-materialworld (and continue to hunt for food themselves).  A 20-hundredsaudience\'sinitial reaction is probably very similar to that of a 19-twentiesaudience.This initial reaction subsides once Flaherty draws us into Nanook\'sfamilyand they become human to us.  I imagine some might criticize Flaherty forhis shots of Nanook and his family members posing and smiling straight onatthe camera, but these moments are most precious in "Nanook of the North."From what I gather from various sources and his paper, Mr. Flaherty wasoutin this frozen wilderness with no other English-speaking individuals.  Heobviously had a command of the language or a  translator, but even morethanthat he obviously treated his subjects with dignity (on and off camera).His style here is closer to participant observation, rather than anethnography.  A good lesson can be learned from Flaherty, in that, greatfriendship and even some fun can be had when the filmmaker surroundshimselfwith his subject, although she or he may loose their objectivity.However,to be closer to a people is to understand them better.  No one can doubtthat Flaherty\'s take on the travel film is ingenious and that herevolutionized the film industry.  To this day, "Nanook of the North"succeeds in being a modern film, easily accessible to anyone.  It conveysthe lifestyle and ideas of a different culture clearly and with a veryhumantouch.  And that is all that anyone could want from a documentary.
=============
like ratio : 0.813953488372093
interest ratio: 1.1944444444444444
moviename: Nanook of the North
number of likes: 35
number of interests : 43