Paul Henreid portrays a character with a pretty young wife, determinedto leave the country and desperately needing an exit permit - soundfamiliar? Perhaps so, but this isn't "Casablanca", it's a relativelyobscure film from 1944 deserving of a wider audience. "Between TwoWorlds" is a well constructed morality tale that reveals the lot of ahandful of souls on the way to their final destination aboard a shipgoing nowhere.The wayward passengers come together as the vehicle en route to theirtrans-Atlantic ship is destroyed by a German World War II air raidbombing in London. Simultaneously, the distraught Henry Bergner(Henreid), unable to obtain passage for his wife Ann (Eleanor Parker)and himself, chooses suicide for both. Interestingly, the Bergner's arethe only passengers that know from the beginning that they are dead,having chosen their fate. Their fellow passengers can't seem toremember recent events, complaining of fatigue and dizziness. As one might expect, the characters are stereotypes - Thomas Prior(John Garfield) is a brash, cynical newspaperman; Maxine "Maxie"Russell (Faye Emerson) is a part time stage actress and full time golddigger. Pete (George Tobias) is heading back to America to be with hiswife and yet unseen newborn son, who has already defied the odds bysurviving three torpedo attacks as a serviceman. Genevieve (IsobelElsom) is a snooty socialite with a very high opinion of herself,married to Benjamin (Gilbert Emery), a patient and unassuming man. SaraAllgood is Mrs. Midget, an odd name for a woman whose lot in life findsenjoyment in helping others. Appropriately, there's a religious manaboard, Reverend William (Dennis King), whose ambition is to meet newpeople, do new things and get a taste of adventure. And then there'sLingley, of Lingley Limited, who never lets you forget that his moneycan only be rivaled by his own self importance.Edmund Gwenn is superb as the ship's steward with the unlikely monikerof Scrubby, whose job it is to deftly allow the passengers tounderstand their fate as they come to realize what happened to them.And on hand to pass final judgment is The Examiner, Sydney Greenstreetin a perfectly cast role.If any fault is to be found with the film, it would be the earlyrevelation of the passengers' fate; a little more exposition andbuildup would have heightened the suspense. However the fates of theindividuals are well suited to their demeanor in life, and are cleverlymeted out by the astute Examiner.
=============
like ratio : 0.9444444444444444
interest ratio: 1.08
moviename: Between Two Worlds
number of likes: 51
number of interests : 54