I had said two weeks ago, in a review of Scandal, that Eclipse's newKurosawa box set could just as easily be called Lesser Kurosawa. That'snot fair. I know there are those who champion The Idiot and No Regretsfor Our Youth, and even the one film I had previously seen from theset, I Live in Fear, is quite good (though it's hard to argue with itbeing a lesser film is such an outstanding oeuvre). The truth was, Iwas hoping very much to find some lesser-known Kurosawa classics. Whichbrings us to One Wonderful Sunday. Judging solely by IMDb's votes, it'sKurosawa's third least seen movie. And it ranks #26 out of 30 whenlisted by ratings. Well, I'll be happy to act like I was the first whodiscovered this hidden gem in Kurosawa's catalogue. This really is awonderful little film. Influenced very much by Vittorio de Sica, one ofKurosawa's favorite directors, One Wonderful Sunday follows two younglovers, Yuzo and Masako (Isao Numasaki and Chieko Nakakita), spendingthe titular day together with nothing but ¥35 between them. The twoexperience sadness and hardship as they go about their date. Thestructure is episodic, as the lovers experience odd vignettes, meetingvarious post-war types, like bums and orphans and ticket scalpers. Thetwo try to be happy with each other's company, but Yuzo's poverty makeshim feel like less of a man. In one of the strongest sequences inKurosawa's career, Yuzo decides to act like a cad to drive Masako away.Kurosawa was hardly ever the subtle type, and he is not known for longperiods of silence or long takes. This sequence demonstrates adifferent side of the director. The climax of the film involves an oddbreaking of the fourth wall resembling the device in J.M. Barrie'sPeter Pan. As far as I know, this is the only time Kurosawa everattempted such a thing. That wouldn't be too surprising, though, asfilm audiences rarely interact with characters on screen. It's just tooout there for the medium. But God bless Kurosawa for trying it. It'skind of schmaltzy, but I loved the characters so much that at least Ithought about clapping for them. A forgotten near-masterpiece.
=============
like ratio : 0.8666666666666667
interest ratio: 0.625
moviename: One Wonderful Sunday
number of likes: 13
number of interests : 15