This film does not receive the notice it deserves; it is discovered bythose who are intrigued by its gimmick--the action takes place in aghost town scheduled to be destroyed by am atom bomb very soon, andthen appreciated for its many good B/W dramatic scenes and otherqualities. Dick Powell directed this taut thriller with his usualcombination of good work with actors and very competent camera work.There are two plots going on here, very well interwoven by mystandards; the normals in the film, led by a reporter beautifullyplayed by Keith Andes, are those trapped in the doomed desert town; theother are those who are holding them there, a gang of criminals led bynice-guy and talented actor Stephen McNally as Sam Hurelyy-- an escapedcriminal whose brutality becomes a metaphor for the violence of an Agethat needs to resort to atom bomb tests. Others in the stellar castinclude Jan Sterling, Robert Paige,,Alexis Smith, Richard Egan, ArthurHunnicutt, Paul Sewart and Frank de Kova. What sets this film apart Isuggest is the brutality theme which is deftly made to affect to everymember of the cast. McNally as Sam Hurley equates life with getting todo whatever he wants to do to anyone by force. Andes is his chiefantagonist, not a great pugilist but a brave fighter for another way ofthinking about life--get on with your own priorities and leave othersalone; this is by the way the real definition of heroism-- being a manwho can do something well. Alexis Smith plays a woman who to save herlife ignores what Hurley is, and the fact that is is planning to leavethe others behind when he uses their car to drive away--with the atombomb taking care of the evidence. The characters here are all unusuallywell-developed, from hoofer Sterling who distrusts everyone until Andestakes a beating from McNally protecting her, to Paige whounderestimates Hurley to Hunnicutt who has run away from people to Eganwho comes to save the wife who has been cheating on him, a woman whocan\'t take responsibility, to Stewart who has to act against Hurley,his partner. It\'s difficult to recommend too highly such anextraordinary blend of noir brinksmanship, excellent dialogue andmemorable confrontations. This drama only needed one change, to be madefrom the point of view of the reporter not the gang leader, to be agreat film. It would lose a lot in color since it\'s superbblack-and-white noir drama, from an age of much-better acting, writingand directing.
=============
like ratio : 0.8235294117647058
interest ratio: 1.0303030303030303
moviename: Split Second
number of likes: 28
number of interests : 34