Is it possible to take one of the best tales in French literature and make afilm even better out of it? Yes, it is. The tale is Maupassant\'s "La maisonTellier", the film-maker is Max Ophuls, the film is "Le Plaisir".  In fact,the movie is divided into three episodes, corresponding to threeMaupassant\'s tales. In the two short introducing and final stories weactually find the bitter, acid, misanthropical sarcasm typical ofMaupassant\'s style, though softened by Ophuls\' sympathy for humanunhappiness. What really stuns the viewer is the central episode, the sumptuous narrationof "La maison Tellier". The story is the same in the book and in the film. Abunch of prostitutes from "La maison Tellier", the brothel of a Frenchprovince town, takes a day off to go to a First Communion celebration in thecountryside. But what a difference of mood. The fact is that Maupassantdetested and despised people, while Ophuls manifestly loves them and isalways ready to forgive their faults and pettiness. Therefore the writer\'saggressive satire is replaced by the director\'s gentle sense of humor. Thebrothel is closed, and we shortly realize that the balance of the town, thewhole social order is upset. Some sailors start a brawl, and that looksrather expectable. But even peaceful middle-class respectable citizens,long-time friends, begin to quarrel bitterly. "La maison Tellier" is the keyof social stability!Then the church-scene, a perfect blend of sweet fun and profound humanfeeling. Overwhelmed by the intense emotion of the First Communion Mass, theprostitutes burst in tears, and they carry all the villagers with them. Iguess to have noticed a delightful nuance by Ophuls. The "beautiful Jewishgirl" whom, according to the director (a Jewish himself), no brothel canafford to miss (!), at first tries to restrain herself. She\'s not Christian,she\'s not supposed to be moved! But, of course, she soon starts to weep...Great emotion, great art! And the women merged in the high grass, pickingflowers... it\'s late, they risk to miss their train... but no! It\'s so agorgeous day, let\'s go and pick some flowers! How poetic, how beautiful...what a fantastic scene! Needless to say, as soon as the women are back,peace, order, friendship are restored in the town.The above comments can give a partial idea of the director\'s extraordinarytreatment of the story. But it\'s important to remark that just the visualbeauties and the camera work by the genius Ophuls are largely enough toplace "Le plaisir" among the best works in the history of cinema. Let mejust mention the first scene, when we peep inside the brothel together withthe outside eye of the camera, which jumps from a window to another like alittle bird. That is the most brilliant cinematic idea I can remember. Aperfect film forces a perfect job by the cast. And in fact the acting ismagnificent."Le plaisir" is a profound study of human beings, of their joys and sorrows,an instance of superlative good taste in treating a risky theme, a triumphof clever cinematic technique. A peak of the art of cinema.            
=============
like ratio : 0.8181818181818182
interest ratio: 1.2222222222222223
moviename: Le Plaisir
number of likes: 18
number of interests : 22