Cary Grant is "Mr. Lucky," a 1943 films also starring Laraine Day,Charles Bickford and Gladys Cooper. Grant plays a self-serving swindlernamed Joe who takes the identity of a dying man who's 4F so that hewon't have to go into the service. The name he takes is that of a Greekman, Joe Bascopoulos, but the name will bring him more than just a 4Fclassification. Needing money to get his gambling ship started, he seesan easy mark in Dorothy Bryant (Day), one of the administrators of aWar Relief Fund. He uses his considerable charm to persuade her to lethim run a casino night as part of the organization's big fundraiser.The plan is to use cash boxes with false bottoms and take off withnearly all of the money. Just one hitch - Joe has fallen in love withDorothy.This is a slightly different role for Grant - he plays a real low-lifeand at that, one with no style. One of the running jokes is his rottenties and inability to tie them right. Grant is perfect in the role, aswell as incredibly handsome. But it's only a slightly different part -like Tyrone Power, who tried so hard to change his image in 1947 with"Nightmare Alley," Grant tried too, and like Power, was sabotaged bythe producing studio. In Power's case (who actually would have donewell had Zanuck let him have more traditional Cary Grant type roles),he was allowed to make the film and play a low character, but hisstudio, 20th Century Fox, did not publicize the film nor release itwidely. In Grant's case, he'd happily accept a role - such as this oneor his part in "Suspicion" - only to have the script changed so thathe's not a total heel. It had to be frustrating for these actors whowere capable of so much more than they were allowed to do. Lovely Laraine Day is just right as the young, rich Dorothy whopassionately believes in helping the war effort. Day had an air ofsophistication that lent itself well to these wealthy society girlroles. "Mr. Lucky" is beautifully photographed in black and white, with lotsof interesting shadows and fog. The film also has some very funnymoments - Grant learning to knit is just one.This is a very good movie and somewhat of a departure for Grant, acousin to his role in "Suspicion."
=============
like ratio : 0.8695652173913043
interest ratio: 0.6571428571428571
moviename: Mr. Lucky
number of likes: 20
number of interests : 23