It's fascinating to speculate what Preston Sturges would have done withthis film had he directed it himself. He reputedly disliked MitchellLeisen's treatment, but in this he only proves he was a better creatorthan a critic.I suspect Sturges wanted to deliver a typically cynical social satire;something about how the rigidity of law must inevitably give way to thecaprices of love (with a plot boldly swiped from Camille). But Leisenbrought to the project all the delicate sentiment that Sturges wouldhave shied away from, and turned Sturges' clever parable into aheart-rending, almost Dickensian Christmas fable.Just as Sturges was a genius of dry wit, Leisen was a master attweaking the heart-strings, and of creating a magically timeless mood.(See Death Takes a Holiday, for instance.) So in Remember the Night wehave a one-of-a-kind fusion of opposites. What results is a remarkablefilm: understated and clever, yet emotional and heroic. And somehow,amazingly, both hopeful *and* downbeat.Remember the Night is one of a handful of absolutely indispensableChristmas classics: it deserves to be counted right alongside It's aWonderful Life, Miracle on 34th Street, A Christmas Carol and TheBishop's Wife. It's less-known than the others doubtless because it'sless mystical, less whimsical, and most importantly, because it failsto provide the mandatory Happy Ending. But that's exactly its greatestvalue.We've come to set impossible standards for Christmas, and bring onlydisappointment upon ourselves, year after year. Remember the Nightreminds us that Christmas is, after all, just one part of the cycle. Itcan't magically endow us with Joy Everlasting... but it can allow us achance to raise our sights just a little bit as our lives tumbleinevitably onward into the new year. And that's a *real* miracle, not astorybook fantasy that requires angelic intervention to make it cometrue.
=============
like ratio : 0.9642857142857143
interest ratio: 0.5384615384615384
moviename: Remember the Night
number of likes: 27
number of interests : 28