COLLEEN (Warner Brothers, 1936), directed by Alfred E. Green, reunitesthe musical team of Dick Powell and Ruby Keeler for the seventh andfinal time. Powell plays Donald T. Ames, the nephew Cedric Ames (HughHerbert), an eccentric millionaire whose wife, Alicia (Louise Fazenda),suspects him of philandering around with other women. He encountersMinnie Hawkins (Joan Blondell), a chocolate dipper working at theItsey-Ditsey Nut Chewsie, becomes impressed with her, buys a dress shopwhere she gets to be in charge of the establishment. Whileinvestigating the books of the dress shop, Donald meets and becomesinfatuated with Colleen Reilly (Ruby Keeler), the bookkeeper. Insteadof closing up the shop, Donald agrees to keep it open for as long asMinnie behaves herself, but Minnie, the fortune hunter as she is,pretends to be interested in Cedric (who plans on adopting her as hisdaughter), and two-times him with Joe Cork (Jack Oakie), Colleen'ssteady boyfriend. Romance blossoms between Donald and Colleen, butfurther complications follow before things get under way on board anocean liner.A silly comedy that somehow works,COLLEEN brings back Powell and Keelerto familiar surroundings made famous from their earlier collaborations(GOLD DIGGERS OF '33 and DAMES), as a romantic couple surrounded bygold digger(s), an eccentric millionaire with scatterbrained wife,along with plenty of song and dance. It's not the usual backstagestory. The production numbers this time just happen on screen with abright score composed by the then popular Harry Warren and Al Dubin,which happened to be one of those rare cases where they failed toproduce a single song hit. The score includes: "I Don't Have to DreamAgain" (sung by Dick Powell, followed by singing and dancing models ina musical fashion show hosted by Keeler, highlighted with a tap dancingstory by Paul Draper and Keeler); "The Boulvardier From the Bronx"(sung and performed amusingly by Jack Oakie and Joan Blondell as theydine in a Chop-Suey joint); "An Evening With You" (sung by Powell toKeeler as they take a stroll through the park); "You Gotta Know How toDance" (sung by Keeler/danced by Keeler and Draper, and sung briefly byPowell), followed by a short reprise of "An Evening With You" sung byPowell to Keeler on deck of the ship.Watching the ten minute finale of "You Gotta Know How to Dance,"choreographed by Bobby Connolly, this number at times has the feel tothe Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers production number of "TheContinental" from their 1934 hit, "The Gay Divorcée" (RKO), which findsthe camera following a group of dancers in long shot range and averageshot towards its main focus of Keeler and Draper. Paul Draper, in hismovie debut, is an unusual dancer (and bad actor whose participation inthe plot is thankfully limited), with a much different style toAstaire's. However, he doesn't have that grace and elegance that madeAstaire so popular and likable, which probably explains why Draper'sfilm career was so short-lived. Draper's tapping at times drowns outthe Vitaphone Orchestra underscoring in the two production numbersopposite Keeler. Also seen briefly in a large cast of Warners stock players are MarieWilson as Mabel (sharing one short scene near the film's openingopposite Herbert); J.M. Kerrigan as Colleen's father; Berton Churchillas Cedric's lawyer; and Luis Alberni as Carlo, the dress designer. Asfor Joan Blondell, who spends much of the time going about Bink-eyedand speaking in a dead-pan manner, it's Hugh Herbert who nearly walksaway with the story since the main focus is on him instead of Colleen.COLLEEN, an overlooked musical, is quite amusing and entertaining,offering Keeler an opportunity to sing and dance more than she ever didon screen in the past. However, her dancing opposite Draper has becomeno threat to the song and dance team of Astaire and Rogers. COLLEEN isworth viewing through once whenever presented on Turner Classic Movies.One final note: Let's hope that someday COLLEEN goes through arestoration process since the audio can be slightly distorted andpicture covered with acid spots that's quite noticeable near theconclusion. (***)
=============
like ratio : 0.95
interest ratio: 1.8181818181818181
moviename: Colleen
number of likes: 19
number of interests : 20