Fitzgerald is the only survivor of a shipwreck and he finds himselfwashed up on an luscious Pacific island, which is inhabited by aclose-minded doctor, his unsatisfied wife and edgy assistant. Thatnight they found Fitzgerald, the doctor\'s experimental subject; apanther got loose and killed some natives. But they manage to get holdof it again. Not too long Fitzgerald learns what the doctor is tryingto do, but he questions the ethical nature of his experiments. WhenFitzgerald comes face to face with Dr. Girard\'s test subject it\'ssomething his eyes can\'t believe.Like other users have already mentioned, this cheap b-grade flick isinfluenced by H.G. Wells novel "The Island of Doctor Moreau." You mightcall it a poor man\'s version of the story. But to my surprise thisfeature was incredibly well-made and mildly effective, it\'s just toobad that the print of the film is all scratched up and jumpy in parts.The low-budget production is well set-up with fine execution in thedirection, thunderously high-strung score and solid camera-work inachieving a very heavy mood in the jarringly, grim atmosphere. Theisolated island (which was filmed in the Philippines) and the doctor\'shouse (especially his laboratory) have a dauntingly, unsteady feel.Slow-building terror is squeezed tight by a snail-like opening hourinvolving many stoppages and meandering about. The third-act though, iswhere things really get going with some nice doses of suspense andplenty of interesting moments occurring with the mystery of thedoctor\'s work coming out of the dark. These sparks are few and farbetween, but the sub-due plot is strong enough to carry the film, eventhough it does have its wishy-washy details and understated ending. Theroutine script is filled with a lot of mumbo jumbo, maybe a little toomuch of it and a bit forced. Thrown in are ponderous theories aboutevolution and morality about interfering with nature\'s course and soon. Also the dramatic interplay between the characters have a varietyof frictions that plays on their slowly decaying mentality. Though, thetoken romance link between Fitzgerald and Frances Girard wasunconvincing and it felt overly padded for me. The performances wereexceptional enough, with some buoyant acting at times. Francis Lederer,as Dr. Girard, Richard Derr as Fitzgerald and Oscar Keesee Jr. asPerrera were terrific in their roles. The beautiful Greta Thyssen asFrances Girard; I was 50/50 on, sometimes she was rather leaden, butstill she has an awe that\'s hard dismiss. The make-up effects for ourfeline (and there\'s only one) was way above-average, even though it waskept in bandages and looking more like a mummy. But when we seeglimpses of its face it was rather well-done up, though I found thecreature\'s growling unintentionally amusing.There\'s nothing great or particularly unfamiliar about it, but withwhat they had to work with, it\'s commendably done.Side-note: I\'m just glad that I didn\'t have to sit through the warningbell gimmick, which would destroy the whole purpose in you wantingsuspense and surprises from this film. The idea just escapes me,especially since you\'ll know what you\'re getting yourself into.
=============
like ratio : 0.8571428571428571
interest ratio: 0.6666666666666666
moviename: Terror Is a Man
number of likes: 12
number of interests : 14