Wow, this was stunning, both in photography and in content. Here's anice, old-fashioned "religious story" you rarely see anymore. TheEnglish title goes under "The Miracle Of Marcelino." It's a simple tale of a group of monks who discover a baby at theirmonastery doorstep one morning and then raise the boy. They try to findsuitable parents for the infant but are unsuccessful. The infant scenesdon't run too long because, before you know it, they havefast-forwarded it to when the boy was six years of age....and that'swhere he stays until the end of the film.Pablito Calvo as the title character, Marcelino," is excellent. Kudosto cinematographer Heinrich Gartner for beautiful black-and-whitephotography. The DVD transfer was outstanding, too. The lighting,particularly on faces, is terrific.Other reviewers here at IMDb, such as Albert Sanchez Moreno, havedescribed the story nicely. I will just add I found it oddlycaptivating the entire way and very touching and moving in the last 20minutes or so, after the boy discovers the big statue of Christ andbegins communicating with Him. Yeah, I'm sure it looks reallyfar-fetched to almost everyone, especially non-Believers, but I enjoyedand marveled at the end of this film. I'm not quite sure what to make of the monks in here and why they would"warn" the young boy against going up in the attic, where the statue islocated, unless they somehow supernaturally knew what was going tohappen.....yet they still should have put their trust in Christ,anyway. Their actions are puzzling at times. There is a real mystery tothis story overall, anyway. Not being Catholic, maybe I missedsomething in the translation. This is a very "Catholic" film but aChrist-believing Protestant as I am can still fully appreciate thisstory, too, as much as anyone, and I did.You'll never find this at a rental store but those you are curious, youmight want to add it to your queue if you belong to one of thosemail-in rental programs. This film was a collaboration of Spanish andItalian filmmakers, I think. There was a color re-make in the early'90s, but I haven't seen it.It's a film of tender "innocence" like few I've ever seen, which makesit very memorable.
=============
like ratio : 0.9047619047619048
interest ratio: 0.525
moviename: The Miracle of Marcelino
number of likes: 19
number of interests : 21