(Initial comments) My son gave me a copy of Season One of "TheAdventures of Superman" for Christmas, and I must say it was the bestpresent I've received in a long while. We had such a good time watchingfavorite episodes. I am a child of the 50's and grew up with Supermanwhile it was still fairly new. My son experienced it on Nick at Nitere-runs, a special time for us both.Now I have purchased the Season Two set, and the episodes here may bein many ways better than those in the first. A particular favorite is"Panic in the Sky," where our hero has to deflect a meteor as ithurtles towards Earth. Special flying sequences were filmed for thisepisode that were not used in any other.A special treat is "Stamp Day for Superman," a special episode that Inever saw as a child. While it is a quickie "freebie" made to supportthe U.S. Treasury Dept., this episode stands up pretty well with the"regular" episodes.The featurette "First Lady of Metropolis" is a wonderful tribute toNoel Neill, who took over the role of Lois when Phyllis Coates wasunable to continue. It is so nice to see Ms. Neill still lookinglovely. She still has the "sparkle" in her eyes that made her Lois soenjoyable to watch.Another favorite episode is "Around the World with Superman." Anyonewho is not moved by this story of a blind girl's attempt to re-uniteher troubled family just doesn't have a heart.Thanks to Warners and to my son for helping me capture a sense of myown youth.(June 20, 2006) I just got my copy of Seasons 3 & 4 of Adventures ofSuperman. Special features include a piece entitled "Adventures ofSuperman: The Color Era" and another called "Faster Than a SpeedingBullet: The Special Effects of The Adventures Of Superman." The former, about the series being filmed in color features interviewswith Jack Larsen, Noel Neill, Gary Grossman (author of "Superman:Serial to Cereal") and a television historian whose name escapes me.All pretty much agree that it was a shrewd move of the producers tostart filming the show in color, and saving the negatives until colortelevision was common a decade later. In the words of Larsen, "Thoseguys were pretty smart." The one about the sfx was mainly a profile and interview with TholSimonson, along with Larsen and Neill. Both cast members were effusivewith praise for Simonson, saying they always felt safe, no matter howrisky the effect looked on screen. Something I had not seen before is adiagram of the "pan" apparatus and counterbalance that replaced thewires that had earlier suspended Reeves. Episodes I have watched so far are "The Wedding of Superman," "The BigFreeze," and "Through the Time Barrier." As has been noted elsewhere,these stories are much less heavily dramatic as the nourish earlyepisodes. However, the light comedy is not really campy, justgood-natured. Also, Neill as Lois looks quite fetching in her cave-girloutfit in the time-travel story. In fact, Ms. Neill still looks quite lovely in the new interviewfootage. She still has those same sparkling eyes and the lovely smilethat gave me that first crush on Lois all those years ago. (Update: December 3, 2006: Initial impressions of Seasons 5 & 6:)"Superman's Wife" is not as hokey as many of the other episodes in thefinal season. Joi Lansing is a knockout, and John Eldredge, as usual,makes one of the more interesting, intelligent villains. "The Perils of Superman" is pure FUN.Noel makes for some NICE cheesecake in that proto-Jeannie outfit in"The Tomb of Zaharan." The story was pure cheese, though. (In "FoghornLeghorn" voice: hey, I made a funny. Cheese--Cheesecake.)"The Big Forget" contains the greatest tease in the entire series:Clark changing into Supes in full view of all the series regulars!The final shot of "All That Glitters" is really poignant, consideringhow things turned out for George. The featurette about Jack Larsen is a nice little tribute.A fun time with old friends that I now share with my grandkids. (Allwarm and fuzzy.)
=============
like ratio : 0.9142857142857143
interest ratio: 0.6730769230769231
moviename: `` Adventures of Superman ''
number of likes: 32
number of interests : 35