I usually hate to name a favorite film in a genre because I always haveseveral I rate equally well, but, if asked to name one that tops therest I have to say, in the WWII genre, this film is it. It is anintelligent and honest film about men in war; no heroics, no jingoism,no evil enemy, just regular Joes who are caught up in something big anddeadly and would rather be home, but are doing their job. There are noclichés, no obligatory guy from Brooklyn, no high sounding phrases, nopatriotic slogans, just an honest and realistic depiction of strictlyordinary guys caught in war. Lewis Milestone, the director, obviouslyunderstood the combat soldier.I love the dialog, the banter among the men of "a fighting platoon",especially that between Pvts Rivera, played by Richard Conte, andFriedman, played by George Tyne. Coincidentally, Dana Andrews, one ofmy favorite actors, character is Sgt. Tyne. I wonder what was made ofthat by actor George Tyne. The cast also includes a young Lloyd Bridgesand Huntz Hall, in the only roll I can recall seeing him in outside theEast Side Kids/ Bowery Boys films.The novel by Harry Brown, from which the film was made, was republisheda few years ago and the dialog in the film is lifted straight out ofit, which is part of what makes the film so great. In fact, this is oneof those rare cases where the movie follows the book faithfully, almostto the letter.I was nine years old when this film was released and I well rememberthe night I first saw it. My parents, who have just celebrated their70th wedding anniversary, thought it was a romance film. I didn\'t wantto go but when we arrived at the old Westmore Theater, now long gone,which was in walking distance of our home, and I saw the lobby photosand saw it was a war film, I was the one delighted. There was always atleast one scene from these films that stayed in my mind over the yearsand in this one it was the hand of the German soldier with the ring onit hanging out of the wrecked armored vehicle, and the assault on thefarmhouse."It was just a little walk in the warm Italian sun, but it wasn\'t aneasy thing."An excellent film made from an excellent novel with an excellent cast,all making an excellent viewing experience.
=============
like ratio : 0.9333333333333333
interest ratio: 0.6164383561643836
moviename: A Walk in the Sun
number of likes: 42
number of interests : 45