She may have been tiny, but she could hard-eye stare as well as anyman, and make you believe it. It's that quality that this complexWestern turns on, and fortunately Veronica Lake delivers in spades.It's not like she's the only good actor in the cast. There's thereliable Joel McCrea as the good guy, the commanding Donald Crisp asthe sheriff, and Don De Fore in a sly role as McCrea's buddy, showingboth an easy grin and a tricky set of values.Usually it's two patriarchal land barons who feud over territory. Hereit's not. It's the tiny Lake and bad guy Preston Foster who are dukingit out, both fair and foul. What makes this Western more interestingthan most is that Lake and DeFore fit somewhere between the poles ofgood-guy bad-guy. You never quite know what they'll do next becausetheir moral compass sometimes wobbles. Being a woman with a lot ofambition, Lake has to finagle men into doing her shooting for her, andguess how she does that. And being a man who likes women, DeFore hasfigure out how to balance his loyalties. That makes for someinteresting situations.Director Andre DeToth (check out his unpronounceable real name) is theperfect overseer for a plot that features quiet treachery, hiddenmotives and raw violence. Maybe that's because his middle-Europeanbackground was steeped in just trying to survive. Nonetheless, hissardonic view of human nature reminds me of an early version SamPeckinpah. In fact, the latter hired de Toth to direct several episodesof Peckinpah's brilliant TV series The Westerner (1960). In that samevein, note de Toth's unflinching camera when filming the night battlenear movie's end and when filming the treacherous backshot on Foster'sfront porch. It's clear he's bumping against Production Code strictureson what can be shown and what can't.Ramrod is an underrated Western with an adult story-line. You may,however, need a score card to keep up with the various twists andturns. Still and all, the scenery's great, the acting top-notch, andthe action where it ought to be. In my little book, that's definitely acan't-miss package.
=============
like ratio : 0.9
interest ratio: 2.142857142857143
moviename: Ramrod
number of likes: 27
number of interests : 30