What is wrong with Ralph Kramden? Objectively speaking, everything!! Heis so faulted, why would anyone want to be his friend? Why would anywoman want to be his wife? Originally starting off as a variety showskit, one of three on Jackie Gleason's comedy hour, it (theHoneymooners) undeniably became the favorite! The totally Brooklynvenue sort of explained everything! "One of these days Alice!! bang!!!zoom!!" this was a dubious form of humor!! The distinction that JackieGleason made was that without having a kid, and thus, there would notbe an innocent child who was witnessing abuse, and also, Ralph neveractually hitting Alice, the punchline (No pun intended) was fanny!!Ralph Kramden (Jackie Gleason) was the culprit for the lion's share ofcalamity on this program!! The conclusion to every episode had Ralphseeking some sort of forgiveness from his beyond tolerant and lovingwife, Alice!! At first, Audrey Meadows was not considered a suitablefit for the role of Alice Kramden, she was too glamorous andintelligent! Next day for rehearsal, she dressed herself down and got alittle boisterous.. The cast and directors loved it, and moreimportantly, so did the television audience!! Art Carney, was theextremely likable buffoon, Ed Norton, who garnered a charismaticfollowing with the live studio audience he was performing for, as wellas anyone who watched "The Honeymooners"!! Carney was a favorite on"The Honeymooners" and contributed to the success of the seriestremendously!! Joyce Randolph (Ed Norton's wife, Trixie) had more of acameo appearance on the show, yet her typically New York dispositionspiced the show up, and most episodes which she stared in wereconsidered the better ones!! What was the most significant aspect to"The Honeymooners" was that it evoked a bittersweet end result of humanerror!! An avalanche of character discrepancies besieged RalphKramden's emotional resolve in almost every segment of "TheHoneymooners" The most critical aspect to a humorous situation is whenthe resonating complications to a given situation are completelyavoidable!! The peccant plight of Ralph Kramden was always neonaccented on this program!! Mistakes are made because people are onlyhuman and they make them... Once mistakes are made, all there is reallyleft to do is to laugh!! This is the definition of situation comedy and"The Honeymooners" perpetually depicted such inexcusably inevitableflaws with the Kramdens and the Nortons with a flippant reality!! Suchoutrageous human atrocities were portrayed far more astutely thanperhaps any other of television's attempt at a situation comedy showmade before or after "The Honeymooners" aired!! I loved "TheHoneymooners", it has an identifiability which puts people'sinadequacies in their proper perspectives. Living in a tenement,constantly bickering, making the wrong decisions about money, whatlittle of it that you have, and basically, reducing your life to onebig mess are ingredients for total catastrophe!! However, what thisshow points out time and time again is that all of the characters inthis television show have the ability to laugh everything off!! Allfour of them are not phased by adversity, because they know that all ofthem love and care for one another!! This was the summon substance ofwhat "The Honeymooners" was all about!! Perhaps the most effectivecomedy ever to be made... in a denotative sense, relating to situationcomedies and their initial purpose for amusing people...withoutquestion!! "The Honeymooners" was the best comedy ever made!! Themercurial element to this show made it extremely plausible!! In termsof poignancy issues, and sharp and witty one liners, there are othershows that are better, by and large though, in all aspects of situationcomedy, "The Honeymooners" is one of the top ten sitcoms in the historyof television!!
=============
like ratio : 0.8333333333333334
interest ratio: 0.5806451612903226
moviename: `` The Honeymooners ''
number of likes: 15
number of interests : 18