Die Feuerzangenbowle is based on the familiar and often-filmed storyidea of pupils playing various tricks and jokes on their teachers. Aneasy excuse for an avalanche of slapstick one might think and indeed weget our fair share.The twist in the story is the leader of the pack, the major cause ofthe teachers\' headaches: Johannes Pfeiffer. He is not a real pupil atall, instead a successful playwright with a PhD. One evening at the pubhis friends discover that he never went to a school but was educatedprivately. Their stories of their boyhood years (and a bit too muchalcohol) persuade him to see for himself and \'be a boy again\'.Die Feuerzangenbowle is the second film version of Heinrich Spoerl\'snovel. Heinz Rühmann played the lead in both films, which is somewhatsurprising as they have been made ten years apart. Therefore he is abit too old for his role now but still manages to pull it off quiteconvincingly.The film was made in 1944, so it is a bit astonishing that the Nazicensors were prepared to pass a film with such an anti-authoritarianmessage. To keep them happy, Spoerl created one character, the teacherBrett, who displays authority and firmness and whom the pupilsblindingly obey -- the sort of person you can easily imagine being incharge of an SS regiment. Still, Spoerl uses this very character todeliver a political message: when the teachers discuss how to get holdof the culprit of the most recent outrageous trick, one suggests that"there is always a \'friend\' willing to talk", a clear reference to thewide-spread culture of denunciation in Nazi Germany. Brett replies "Ihope we don\'t have any friends like this in our school."Die Feuerzangenbowle is very well made and today enjoys a cult statusin Germany (the 1944 version that is). However, most of the humourwould not travel well at all, especially the clever use of accents anddialects is virtually untranslatable; a non-native speaker -- evensomebody with a fair knowledge of German -- would miss most of it whenwatching the original.
=============
like ratio : 0.875
interest ratio: 3.2
moviename: The Punch Bowl
number of likes: 28
number of interests : 32