Easy Street starts with Charlie with as a poor, destitute tramp. Afterattending a storefront revival service, and meeting the alwaysdelightful Edna Purviance, he decides to turn his life around. Hequickly gets a job as a policeman and he finds himself assigned to EasyStreet, the worst neighborhood in the city ruled by tough EricCampbell. Using his own unorthodox tactics, Charlie eventually subduesEric and neighborhood and they all live happily ever after.Easy Street was one of the twelve films Chaplin made for Mutual. Mutualgave Chaplin unprecedented freedom and responded by giving them,overall, twelve of the best comedy shorts ever made. Easy Street iseasily the best of them. It is a very funny short. This is the film Ishow when I want to introduce someone to Chaplin or silent films ingeneral. The gags are inventive, and they are extremely well-played byhis regular company of Mutual performers. Chaplin himself is at hisbest in this film, but where would he be without Eric Campbell, thebest heavy he ever played against. (Sadly, Campbell would die in a caraccident after the completion of the Mutual comedies. His loss would befelt in the First National comedies, which rarely reached the heightsof the best Mutual work.)But there is more to Easy Street than laughs. It is unusually maturefor a silent comedy of its period. Chaplin usually presented his trampcharacter as a happy-go-lucky figure - a vagabond by choice, notcircumstance. This film starts with the tramp as a down-and-outcharacter, much in need of the new beginning he gets at the mission. Inperhaps his first attempt at social commentary, Chaplin provides anunblinking view of ills of the society of the time. The most graphicexample is the drug addict shooting up with a needle. People often havea misconception of silent comedies being simply quaint. That isn'tquaint. This is a must see.
=============
like ratio : 1.0
interest ratio: 0.5555555555555556
moviename: Easy Street
number of likes: 15
number of interests : 15