This landmark film is one of the earliest surviving expressionistworks, and it\'s art direction and photography-- while not as stunningas a film like Caligari-- is still extremely interesting with itsmisshapen sets and its use of light and shadow, and light withinshadow. Unlike Caligari, the themes of this film were resonant longafter its release, and perhaps still are today.The Golem is a tolerance film that studies in depth the relationshipbetween Jews and Christians in Prague. To his credit, Wegener refusesto impose stereotypes on either party, instead concentrating onindividual characters and using mass characterizations only tohighlight the themes of the film.Unlike stereotypical Jews, rich guys with big noses who rub penniestogether, the Jews of Prague are decidedly poor. It is interesting tonote that the Jews are all dressed in black and with very fewexceptions appear to be bent with age, a tribute to an aging and dyingreligion. However, they are also portrayed to be earnest andhard-working, with strong communal instincts. The Christians, bycontrast, appear bright, shiny, and new. They are dressed in lightcolors and are young and wealthy, and outwardly appear to be God\'s newchosen. However, they are also portrayed as foolish bohemians who donot take God seriously. In the end, Christian innocents (andblonde-blue Aryan, coincidentally)are able to stop the Golem\'s rampage,but only because he allows it. The final shot shows the Star of Davidlying in the dust as the Jews come to carry their fallen champion backinto the ghetto, closing the great door behind them and leaving youwith a feeling that they are gone forever. However, it should be notedthat the Golem is not only a champion to the Jews, but a symbol ofrevival.Another interesting comparison in this film is that between the Golemand Jesus. Like man, the Golem is made of sand and clay, then givenlife by a supernatural force. They are both immaculate conceptions,with the Golem being motherless while Jesus is born to a virgin mother.Jesus in his time was a champion of the Jews, as is the Golem, and eachof them rebelled against the wickedness of the authorities thatgoverned them.This open-ended presentation of the struggle of Christianity vs.Judaism is what makes this film truly great. I suspect that thisrelevant elevation above the ordinary is the reason for its survival,even though it is the third film of this series. The fact that Wegenerwas able to make a film that is so ambiguous is a credit to himconsidering the circumstances surrounding German film-making at thetime.Rabbi Loew is portrayed as a wise and heroic leader of the Jewishcommunity, which lives in a winding ghetto. He creates the Golem for anoble cause-- to protect his people against eviction by theChristians--and in this cause succeeds after the Christian court issaved by the Golem from divine repudiation after laughing at Loew\'spresentation of the Old Testament. The creation scene is particularlyinteresting, not only in its visuals, but for the fact that in thisscene Rabbi Loew wears white (for purity), yet performs a ceremony thatis holy in nature yet seems like witchcraft. The Golem turns on himwhen he seeks to continue using the Golem\'s services for selfishpurposes after the Golem has accomplished his mission.Miriam and Loew\'s servant are portrayed quite differently. Miriam is adark seductress who is unwittingly the cause of the Golem\'s destructiverampage. She is only saved from the hands of the Golem by another actof divine intervention, when the communal prayer of the Jews in thestreets of the ghetto results in her release. She usually dresses indark colors. However, there is also a scene before her affair withFlorian in which she wears white (purity of a different kind). Alsonotice how Florian carelessly twirls a flower when he delivers theedict to Rabbi Loew. This is a brief, but effective, example of hischaracter and foreshadows things to come. Loew\'s servant is the onlyother young Jewish character in the film besides a few Jewish childrenin the street, and it is his revival of the Golem during his jealousrage against Florian that sets the Golem on his destructive path. LikeLoew, he is unable to remove the Star of David from the Golem\'s chestonce he begins to use the Golem for selfish gain. In the end, he sharesa poignant moment with Miriam where they seek forgiveness andconfidence about their actions.The depth and attention to detail that Wegener shows as a director (andwriter) in this film helps to place it among the great films in thebrief history of cinema. It\'s message is particularly hauntingconsidering the events of the next 25 years after its release.
=============
like ratio : 0.8285714285714286
interest ratio: 0.813953488372093
moviename: The Golem
number of likes: 29
number of interests : 35