It\'s hard to tell which element of "The Woman in the Window" (1944)contributes most to its excellence: script, direction, casting,performances, lighting, cinematography, scoring. So, it\'s probably safe tosay, "All of the above!""TWITW" introduces us to Assoc. Prof. Richard Wanley (Edward G.Robinson)of Gotham College, who has just seen his wife and two kids (young RobertBlake is "Dickie" Wanley) off for a two week summer vacation. Just prior toentering his men\'s club, he is captivated by the portrait of a beautifulwoman in the display window of a neighboring storefront. His club memberfriends, District Attorney Frank Lalor (Raymond Massey) and surgeon Dr.Barkstane (Edmond Breon) notice him staring at the portrait and indulge thetemporary "bachelor professor" in some good-natured ribbing before thethreeenter the club for drinks and conversation.As the evenings winds down, the doctor having subscribed some medicationfor Prof. Wanley who has complained of fatigue, the colleagues leave. Prof.Wanley asks for a 10:30 PM call in the event that he dozes off whilereadingin his club chair. Upon leaving the club, Wanley again stops at theportrait; and standing behind him is the model, Alice Reed (Joan Bennett),who posed for the artist. She admits that she frequently comes to the spotto check out people\'s rections to the painting. The small talk leads thetwoto an innocent drink at a club followed by a visit to her sumptuousapartment, where she shows Wanley other sketches by the artist.The intrusion of an insanely jealous lover leads to struggle, murder (inself-defense) and a quandary: How do two non-merderous strangers go aboutcovering up a murder, disposing of a body (a large one), and manage totrusteachother in the process?The body turns out to be the type of man who warrants headlines.Wanley\'sfriendship with the D.A. gets him invited on a "field trip" to the spotwhere the body was found. Here we meet the Chief Inspector, beautifullyportrayed by Thomas E. Jackson). Through a series of delightfully handledmishaps, the gentle professor manages to exhibit elements about himselfwhich would conspire to make him a prime suspect had the very prospect notbeen so ludicrous. A sleazy, but extremely clever blackmailer (Dan Duryea)is introduced. How he becomes involved, we\'ll leave unsaid, so as not tospoil some of the film\'s outstanding storytelling.The characters are three dimensional. Massey, as the D.A. is both acondescending stuffed-shirt and a caring friend. Jackson, as the Inspectoris superbly understated, an affable exterior housing a brilliant mind fordetection. Bennett and Duryea are both fine, although some of the dialogbetween them could easily have been cut to the improvement of the filmoverall. Robinson is excellent as the unassuming, bright but vulnerableprofessor.The Nunnally Johnson-Arthur Lange script is right-on, with the notedexceptions. Director Fritz Lang has created a taut, superb suspensetale."The Woman in the Window" could easily have had either of two endings,one tragically ironic, one concocted to satisfy audiences in search of moredelectably amusing resolution. I\'ll never tell. This film deserves anyhealthy debate about its ending every bit as much now, in the year 2000, asit did during its first release in 1944.    
like ratio : 0.9032258064516129
interest ratio: 0.4189189189189189