Years ago, in high school, I had to sit through a creaky, dim and dirty,silent black and white documentary about some Eskimo. I remember nothing ofthe film except that I didn\'t like it. Today, I had the opportunity to see arecently restored and nicely scored re-release of that film: Nanook of theNorth. After all the National Geographic, Nova, PBS and Discovery Channeldocumentaries I have seen over the years chronicling the lives of aboriginalbands of people, (aboriginal people often wearing Coca-Cola T-shirts andbaseball caps), this classic 1922 epic is the best I\'ve ever seen showing ahappy people working desperately to survive in an incomprehensibly harshenvironment. It is quite a compliment to the film and its subject that itretains so much power almost 80 years after it was created.The film simply documents a small group of Inuit and their children innortheast Canada as they struggle to live from day to day. That these peoplesurvive at all, let alone remain a seemingly happy, life-loving team in sucha place is mind-boggling. So many of the brutally realistic scenes in this wonderful film remind me ofhow sterilized many contemporary documentaries have become. We see thenecessary brutality of finding, stalking and killing your food. Then slicingup your kill right there on the ice and eating it where it died. We witnessNanook harpooning and then `reeling in\' a walrus, catching fish with no hookand no real bait and somehow knowing where to dig a tiny hole in the ice.Then, through that tiny hole, he spears and battles to bring in a seal. Andhe succeeds. But more than the environment and more than the struggle, what keeps uswatching this film is character. Nanook is the chief of the small tribe andthe father in the main family that is followed. He is smart, curious,inventive, determined and, at the core, a happy, gregarious character thatwe learn to laugh with, root for and celebrate with as he keeps his familyfed. His children are an absolute delight, playful and endearing, seeminglyoblivious to the awful world in which they live. The film seems to have noartifice at all and everything seems to be a regular part of their life withlittle attention paid to the camera.If you are a lover of the documentary form, you cannot miss this re-release.It appears to have been struck from a near pristine negative and restored toits original length of somewhere over 65 minutes. The pleasant score is nottoo obtrusive and sounds as though it may be a reconstruction of the scorecomposed for the theatrical re-release of the film in 1939, but the creditsaren\'t completely clear on that.See this film.
=============
like ratio : 0.8518518518518519
interest ratio: 0.75
moviename: Nanook of the North
number of likes: 23
number of interests : 27