Ernst Lubtisch's classic comic statement about Communist Russia,NINOTCHKA, came out in 1939. Whether it "influenced" the production(also by MGM) of COMRADE X or not I could not say. Certainly there aresimilarities between the comedies. Lubitsch set his comedy in Paris,where a Communist trade mission is living it up, being corrupted by anémigré Russian noble (Melvin Douglas) so he can try to retrieve jewelrythat the trade mission is using as collateral. The Russian governmentdoes not trust the three men sent, so they send a fiercer ideologue(Greta Garbo in the title role) who starts straightening out themission, until she falls for Douglas's charm. In the end she is luredback (with her three associates) to the west and away from the Sovietparadise.NINOTCHKA had Felix Bressart and Sig Ruman in the cast as two of themembers of the trade mission. Comments on this thread point out that inthe 1930s "accents" were fairly interchangeable in Hollywood, so thatthe Swedish Garbo (and later the Austrian Lamarr) became Russian. Sodid German Ruman and German - Jewish Bressart (who would also play aHungarian in THE SHOP AROUND THE CORNER).Unlike NINOTCHKA, COMRADE X is set inside that nightmare land,Stalinist Russia. Somebody is sending out unofficial (but thoroughlycorrect) news stories showing the crimes being committed in Russian bythe government against the people (i.e. the purges), as well as theidiotic projects and waste mismanagement illustrative of how poorly thegovernment is as effective government. This is being resented by thePresidium, who is represented by Oscar Homlolka (Commissar Vasiliev).Please note that Homolka's make-up makes him look a tremendous bit likeone Joseph Stalin. At a public funeral covered by the press court,someone tries to shoot Vasiliev (who does all he can to hide theassassination plot). Mac Thompson (Clark Gable), the American reporter,manages to snap a photo of an odd site - a bearded man who a momentbefore the shooting opened up the lid of the coffin and popped out.This bearded gentlemen turns out to be one Michael Bastakoff (VladimirSokoloff), a rival of Vasiliev for power. He is made to look atremendous bit like one Leon Trotsky.Get the message from Hollywood here? Vasiliev's agents have been tryingto pin down the news leaks, and has narrowed it to two figures:Thompson, and one Emil Von Hofer (Sig Ruman) who is the newsrepresentative from Nazi Germany. Ruman manages to demonstrate it ain'thim, so (despite Gable's breezy denials) Vasiliev believes it is theAmerican.Gable has a close friend in Moscow, one Ygor Yahupitz (Felix Bressart)who is his sometimes valet. Ygor's daughter is Galubcha (Hedy Lamarr)who is a streetcar operator. Ygor wants Gable to try to smuggleGalubcha out of the Soviet Union into the U.S. And the film shows(among other things, including overcoming Galubcha's fierce belief inthe Communist ideal) Gable eventually saving both the girl and herfather.The comedy is quite amusing, even if it lacks the style and grace ofthe Lubitsch touch of the first film. But it certainly comments on theatmosphere within Russia in a way that NINOTCHKA failed to do so. Thecentering of the comedy in Moscow, the suggestiveness of a Stalin -Trotsky rivalry clone, and the heavy control over information iscertainly more realistic than Douglas' being elegant and eloquent aboutthe beauties of Paris.One more thing to keep in mind is a scandal which is on target withthis film, and which (in 1940) finally began to raise eyebrows. In theearly 1930s the New York Times had a reporter named Walter Duranty inMoscow. He turned out to be a fantastically well informed reporter inthe Soviet Union, and came out with interviews and articles that weretremendously informative. In fact, he would win the Pulitzer Prize forhis reporting from Moscow. But as time passed, Duranty's methods andsources were heavily questioned. He also tended to take an officialline about the Purge Trials (i.e., that Bukhanin, Radek, Zinoviev,Tuchochevsky, and the other hundreds and thousands of victims were allactual traitors against the Stalinist regime). After the signing of thenon-aggression pact with Germany in 1939, the Times became verysuspicious of Duranty, and replaced him. The quality of the articlesbecame very much more even handed. Duranty was later revealed to be aStalinist agent. Interestingly enough, the Pulitzer Committee hasrepeatedly rejected requests to take back their award from Duranty'sheirs as his work was pure propaganda. So the issue about the controlover the news from Russia was very, very real.
=============
like ratio : 0.9
interest ratio: 1.25
moviename: Comrade X
number of likes: 27
number of interests : 30