Never before released on DVD or video and very rarely shown on TV overthe decades due to rights entanglements, I'LL NEVER FORGET YOU (a.k.a.THE HOUSE IN THE SQUARE) has finally been released on DVD as part ofthe Tyrone Power Matinée Idol Collection box set. This has been one ofthe most requested films to be put on DVD for several years, and it iswell worth the wait. Although Tyrone Power didn't care about thishighly unusual film, this haunting romantic fantasy is now consideredone of the best films of his highly successful career. The film is a1951 remake of the obscure BERKELEY SQUARE (1933) and is based on aJohn L. Balderston play.I first saw this film in an utterly dismal black-and-white print a fewyears ago, but the fascinating story and excellent cast greatlyimpressed me. The new DVD, which has restored this seldom-seen film toits original glory, is a revelation: the black-and-white used in theopening and closing scenes is crisp and pristine, and the gloriousTechnicolor fantasy sequences look soft and lifelike. The sound qualityis sharp and clear throughout. The difference between the awfulblack-and-white print I watched and the restored print of the DVD isastonishing. The DVD includes galleries of posters, publicity, andproduction stills of the film as special features. However, the DVD isnot sold separately at present.I won't bother mentioning the plot for fear of spoilers, so I'll justmention the cast. Tyrone Power is perfectly cast as the introspectiveand obsessive protagonist, and the lovely Ann Blyth exudes sweetness,compassion, and understanding in her role. As for the supportingcharacters of the past, Dennis Price is wonderful as a rakish fop andKathleen Byron shines in her brief role as a duchess. Special mentionshould go to Michael Rennie as Tyrone's sensible friend of the presentand Felix Alymer as a stiff and puritanical doctor of the past. All theperformances are sincere and the acting is professional under Roy WardBaker's fine direction.Excellent, too, are the production values. The production design of thepresent is meticulous and convincing, while the past is presented withdreamlike backdrops and colors of all sorts. The costumes of the pastare authentic and suitably ornate. William Alwyn's marvelous musicscore, which effectively enhances the most touching elements of thefilm, makes use of haunting leitmotifs and occasional choral music.All in all, this is a worthwhile film, especially for romantics andfans of romantic fantasy films like PORTRAIT OF JENNIE (1948) andSOMEWHERE IN TIME (1980). Of all the films included on the Tyrone PowerMatinée Idol Collection box set, I'LL NEVER FORGET YOU is undoubtedlythe best film of the collection. Its moving and unusual story, handsomeproduction values, excellent music score, and marvelous cast will hauntyou for years to come. You'll never forget this film (pun intended).
=============
like ratio : 0.9130434782608695
interest ratio: 0.696969696969697
moviename: I 'll Never Forget You
number of likes: 21
number of interests : 23