(Since I originally submitted this review to the IMDb, anEnglish-subtitled DVD of "The Little World of Don Camillo" -- and ofits first sequel, "The Return of Don Camillo" -- has become availablein the US. However, I still think that a fan might be interestedlooking at in the old dubbed version, if he or she can find it.)This film is the first in a series of five shot in the 1950s and 60sbased on Giovanni Guareschi's well-loved "Don Camillo" stories. Thejoint Italian-French productions were made with the involvement of theauthor himself, who wrote screenplays and Italian dialog for variousentries in the series; therefore, most consider them to be the officialmovie versions of the Don Camillo stories. Guareschi is quoted aswarmly approving of the way that stars Fernandel and Gino Cervi broughtto life his two famous protagonists, the battling parish priest andCommunist mayor of a small village in post-war Italy. Today, more thanforty years after the series was completed, the films are still playedon European television, dubbed into a variety of languages.Unfortunately, however, they are all but unknown to English-speakingfans (particularly American ones) of Giovanni Guareschi and hiswonderful characters.But this need not be, for "Le Petit Monde de Don Camillo" (1951) doesexist in an English-dubbed version. The only one of the five films toget the treatment, it is quite well done (once you get around the factthat it's dubbed in the first place). "King of Dubbers" Robert Rietti(Rietty) takes on the roles of both Don Camillo and Peppone, while noneother than Orson Welles provides the voice-over narration and, in thatcapacity, the voice of Christ which Don Camillo hears in answer to hisprayers. The narration is intrusive at times (they got their money'sworth out of Welles), but the movie overall is a faithful adaptationand interweaving of some of the more memorable early Don Camillo tales.As the story opens, we meet hot-tempered Don Camillo complaining to theLord about the recent election of the town's Communist contingent. Thenew Mayor, Peppone, is a particular thorn in Camillo's side, as the twohave had an on-going rivalry which only escalates after the election.Conflicts abound: Peppone wants to have his son baptized "Lenin," butDon Camillo has other ideas. The priest has been trying for years toscrape together the money for a town recreation center, then suddenlythe Communists tap an unorthodox source of funds and build their own"People's Palace." Peppone wants to fly the Red banner at a churchprocession, and he doesn't take Don Camillo's veto well. Don Camilloinvests heart and soul into a soccer match between the church's teamand the Party's, and he doesn't understand why the Lord declines totake a side. The Communists call a strike against the local landowners,but Don Camillo is determined to save the neglected farm animals. Andsomehow, amid all the sometimes humorous, sometimes serious conflict, aCatholic "Juliet" and a Communist "Romeo" have fallen in love. Canpriest and mayor lay down their fists and help them?I should add, for the *very* knowledgeable Don Camillo film fan, thatthe dubbed version of "Little World" is based on the Italian ratherthan the French cut of the original movie (director Julien Duvivier andthe mostly bilingual cast shot the two versions simultaneously). Thus,certain scenes that appeared in the French release but were excised bythe censors in stricter Italy will not be in the English version.I believe the dubbed version of "The Little World of Don Camillo" isstill available in vintage video catalogs (that's where I got my VHSedition in 1998), and it's worth looking for, especially for fans ofthe warm and whimsical tales on which it is based.
=============
like ratio : 0.8666666666666667
interest ratio: 1.25
moviename: The Little World of Don Camillo
number of likes: 13
number of interests : 15