"The Eagle and the Hawk" follows the World War One exploits of threeAmerican volunteer airmen who are members of Britain\'s Royal Flying Corps(which was later to be renamed the Royal Air Force).  After months oftraining, Jeremiah Young (March) and Mike Richards (Oakie) are transferredfrom England to an observer unit in France.  The third airman, HenryCrocker(Grant), washes out and later becomes an aerial gunner.The observer unit flies two-seat biplanes doing primarily reconnaissancework, but this does not stop Young from being a very successful pilot,downing two enemy aircraft on his first mission alone.  His initialjubilation over this feat is crushed when he discovers that his observerhasbeen killed.  Though he continues to shoot down many German aircraft, hehasthe appalling luck of losing five observers in his first twomonths.The film follows the career of this heroic pilot and his comrades,includingCrocker who ultimately becomes his observer.  As the weeks go by, Youngbecomes more and more guilt-ridden, not only over losing those who fly withhim, but over the many young Germans he has slain."The Eagle and the Hawk" is a well-made, well-acted film with decent aerialfootage and a wonderful, anguished performance by Fredric March.  Though hemight be overlooked, Forrester Harvey\'s character is ratherthought-provoking.  He plays an enlisted man who has the unenviable task ofcollecting the belongings of slain airmen for safekeeping.  On Young\'sfirstday, he had to perform this task five times.This film is truly a gem which presents a strong anti-war message, onewhichis particularly interesting considering the time it was made (1933 beingtheyear that Hitler achieved power in Germany and the 1930s being the periodofappeasement).  Its ending has a pair of surprises which are well worth theprice of admission.  This is a film which is highly recommended for classicmovie fans.
=============
like ratio : 1.0
interest ratio: 0.7894736842105263
moviename: The Eagle and the Hawk
number of likes: 15
number of interests : 15