It was really the film that established Maurice Chevalier and JeanetteMacDonald as a musical comedy team - the first one of the Americantalkie period. They would make four films in the end (THE LOVE PARADE,ONE HOUR WITH YOU, LOVE ME TONIGHT, and THE MERRY WIDOW). Four firstrate early musicals... and they did not like each other! Jeanetterebuffed Chevalier\'s attempts at a closer relationship (she only likedGene Raymond, whom she later married). He considered her a prude andhypocrite as a result. So, despite their stunning screen chemistry andstring of successes their partnership faded. Nelson Eddy was waiting inthe wings for her to find the proper partner.Chevalier is a Count who has been returned from a diplomatic post for asexual scandal. The country is ruled by Queen Jeanette, and when shemeets the charming Maurice she falls for him. They marry, but he findsthat (under the guidance of her Prime Minister - Lionel Belmore - andhis cabinet) she puts him aside on matters of ruling the state.Chevalier, normally the aggressor in sexual matters and in putting hisown ideas out, does not like the self-image of being the boy-toyhusband of the ruler of his native country. His idea would be more likethat of Prince Albert, Queen Victoria\'s husband, who became her chiefadviser on political matters after their marriage. Here, however, whileeveryone is polite to him, they make it clear that constitutionally heis not to be involved in running the government.The film is a charming one - full of those "Lubitsch touches". Forexample, Chevalier\'s growing anger and impatience at his politicaluselessness is first shown when he asks one of the courtiers (who hasjust politely put him in his place), "Do you understand French?" "No,I\'m afraid I don\'t.", says the courtier. Chevalier, with perfecttiming, shoots out a long, furious diatribe of French, which one cantell is gutter language, to show his fury at his position - much to thedismay of the courtier. Later on, when the Prime Minister also putsdown Chevalier\'s attempts at advice, he smiles and asks the PrimeMinister, "Excuse me, but do you speak French?" Belmore looks at himpuzzled, "Yes I do speak French." With an eat dirt smile, Chevaliersays, "What a pity!" In the end, it is a financial crisis (which withtypical Lubitsch humor can only depend on the foreign investors inSylvanian securities, all of whom have to observe the reactions of theAfghan Ambassador - bearded Russ Powell - to a court function) thatgives Chevalier his chance. Chevalier will only show his true love forhis wife if she and the cabinet give him a voice in public affairs likePrince Albert had. And they give in.It would not be the last visit Hollywood paid to Sylvania. Unlike otherBalkan pseudo-states, it actually reappeared four years later, thoughunder more "sinister" circumstances. In 1933 the Sylvanian Ambassadorto a neighboring country tried to use underhanded means to bring aboutit\'s annexation by his homeland. However, Ambassador Trentino (LouisCalhern) did not count upon the Dictator of Freedonia (Rufus T. Firefly- Groucho Marx) and his three brothers to force him to surrender in abarrage of vegetables and fruit in DUCK SOUP.
=============
like ratio : 0.9
interest ratio: 0.7407407407407407
moviename: The Love Parade
number of likes: 18
number of interests : 20