Like others commenting on this film, I saw "Interrupted Melody" manyyears ago, and it left a deep impression on me. I found when watchingit again that I had retained so many of the scenes in my memory."Interrupted Melody" tells the story of Australian soprano MarjorieLawrence (played by Eleanor Parker), who was stricken with polio at theheight of her career. The singer then has to find the courage toreclaim her will to live, her voice, and her career.This is one of the few films, including anything of Lanza's, whereentire arias and/or operatic scenes have been performed - andcorrectly. Singing for Ms. Parker is dramatic soprano Eileen Farrell,whose voice also acts. In the beginning, when the young Marjorie is ina vocal competition, Farrell takes her powerful chest voice out andinstead carries her middle voice down to the low notes, giving theimpression of a young, untrained singer. Truly inspired.This has to be the high point of Eleanor Parker's career. I had achance to see her nearly 30 years ago in a preview performance of "PalJoey" - regretfully, there were many problems and she and her costarleft the show before it opened. It was a shame, because Parker's Verawas wonderful. Here, she plays the young Marjorie with energy anddetermination, capturing the soprano's nervousness at being away fromhome when she goes to school in Monte Carlo. Later, she plays theperfect diva not afraid to state what she wants. Finally, she's thecrippled Marjorie with no will to live, finding solace entertainingwounded soldiers who are worse off than she is. All through the film,she looks absolutely stunning, and her lipsyncing in Italian, French,and German is perfect.The music is glorious - "Tristan und Isolde," "La Boheme," "Samson etDelilah," "Carmen," "Il Trovatore," (the fastest I've ever heard it),"Madama Butterfly," "Don Carlos," and "Gotterdammerung" - truly a feastfor the ears with Eileen Farrell's magnificent singing.Some have questioned whether or not Lawrence actually sang both mezzoand soprano roles. Lawrence did sing "Carmen," which can be sung by adramatic soprano. Also, Lawrence probably started out as a mezzo - itwas not until she trained in Paris that her upper range was extended.She sang Wagner, Strauss, Puccini, and Verdi in the big opera houses."Samson and Delilah" was perhaps done for the film so we could seeEleanor Parker being sexy and seductive in a gauzy costume. The thingis, Lawrence's specialty was Wagner and you can't only have heavyWagner scenes throughout a movie. The glamorous soprano did her owndancing in "Salome," and played the immolation scene in"Götterdämmerung" by riding her horse into the flames as Wagner hadintended, making her one of the few, possibly the only, soprano to dothis. She also did Thais, which calls for sex and beauty - "Thais" wasthe inspiration for the role Susan Kane bombed in during "CitizenKane."Glenn Ford plays Lawrence's husband, Dr. Thomas King, and the marriageof a successful opera star and fledgling pediatrician is realisticallyportrayed with all its difficulties. In real life, Tom King was anosteopath and a Christian Scientist. Ford has a background role much ofthe time, but also some very dramatic moments and some romantic ones.His gentle, easygoing style fit the character well. A very young RogerMoore is Marjorie's manager-brother.If you love opera, or if you love a story of courage and the power ofthe human spirit, this film is for you. Have a box of tissues nearby -the ending is very powerful.
=============
like ratio : 0.9230769230769231
interest ratio: 0.5909090909090909
moviename: Interrupted Melody
number of likes: 12
number of interests : 13