Watching Remember The Night I remembered something else that audiencesmight have forgotten in 1940 in seeing this film on screen. TheDistrict Attorney of New York County was one Thomas E. Dewey who wasdefinitely not one for mixing business with pleasure. If one of hisAssistant District Attorneys went bail for a prisoner he wasprosecuting and took her home for Christmas and across a few statelines to boot, that man would not have had a job and Dewey wouldn'thave cared about reasons of love.But with a script by Preston Sturges and direction by Mitchell Leisenyou could forget about reality and concentrate on Christmas romance.Leisen assembled a great cast of character players in this verycharming comedy/drama. And you can't miss with leads like FredMacMurray and Barbara Stanwyck in the first of four films they didtogether.MacMurray's the ADA who's prosecuting Stanwyck for shoplifting and thisain't her first offense. But a combination of her beauty and charm andone flannelmouth defense attorney has him feeling sorry for her andthen going her bail and taking her home because, after all it'sChristmas.They have an eventful drive to Indiana where they both coincidentallyhail from and MacMurray himself winds up a fugitive from a speed trapin a hilarious sequence. And the two see the kind of homes each camefrom, something that prosecutors and criminals don't often see fromeach other's point of view.Beulah Bondi and Elizabeth Patterson play MacMurray's mother and auntand are quite the contrast to Georgia Caine who is Stanwyck's coldhearted mom. Spencer Charters does a good job as the speed trap judgein Pennsylvania.My favorite however is Stanwyck's attorney Willard Robertson who isreally carried away with himself as her lawyer. He's giving her adefense on the shoplifting charge that Clarence Darrow gaveLeopold&Loeb. Man does love to hear himself talk. But his talk keepsthe trial over the holidays allowing cupid to work.Stanwyck and Sturges became friends and he confided in her that hewould be directing as well as writing soon and next year he might justhave a project perfect for her. The project turned out to be The LadyEve according to a recent biography of Stanwyck.Remember The Night is a charming film by some charm masters. But Isuspect that Thomas E. Dewey probably hated it.
=============
like ratio : 0.896551724137931
interest ratio: 0.5576923076923077
moviename: Remember the Night
number of likes: 26
number of interests : 29