CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA (1945), based on George Bernard Shaw\'s play anddirected by Gabriel Pascal, is a very unique movie that combines allprecious aspects of film art. It is not purely a historical movie sinceit contains a lot of inaccuracies that appear to be illogical from ahistorical perspective. Nevertheless, one has to analyze it in a deeperunderstanding, taking into account other factors that make the film aprecious piece of post-war cinema. Therefore, it is impossible to seeit without the consideration of other aspects, or more clearly, otherfigures that significantly affect the movie in general: George BernardShaw with his style filled with wit and elegance; and Vivien Leigh withher extraordinary acting skills. Let me consider the threeaforementioned aspects: history, Shaw and Leigh.HISTORY: It is true that if you know Cleopatra\'s story and the eventsconnected with the Roman conquest over Egypt, you will feel confused oreven disappointed with the content of this film. Cleopatra definitelydid not learn to be a queen from Caesar that much as she does here. Shewas a very intelligent woman with "foxy" plans as for Caesar andRome(in this case, I would recommend CLEOPATRA by DeMille (1934) or byMankiewicz (1963). The film by Pascal presents, in part justifiably, atotal mess in Egypt that Caesar finds when he steps into its politics.This is proved by the way Cleopatra and her brother Ptolemy are showed- two kids rather than rulers who compete for power. However, there aresome strong historical points in the film that must be seen togetherwith shortcomings. First, the film very well presents the Romanstogether with their leader Julius Caesar wonderfully played by ClaudeRains. There is a very realistic scene of Roman legions enteringAlexandria, the capital of Egypt. I also liked the way Caesar\'spersonality is developed - someone who is full of contradictions ratherthan an "almighty" conqueror. These aspects make the film moreauthentic and ancient heroes more humane. However, it cannot be treatedas a historical work for sure.GEORGE BERNARD SHAW: But all must be thanked not only to the directorbut to this great classic playwright. G.B. Shaw is noticeablethroughout, particularly through magnificent elegance. The director,Gabriel Pascal, really retains everything that one can find in Shaw\'splay. Therefore, any Shaw\'s fan, including the one with richestimagination will not be disappointed thanks to the marvelous elegancein this movie. In other words, the pictures of the film will not leaveanything else to wish. The lavish sets, the costumes, simply BEAUTYnoticeable in most of the scenes! Wit is another aspect. This is mosteffective in the scenes with Caesar and Cleopatra. "You will soon learnhow to govern" says Cleopatra to mighty Caesar after a day or two ofhis lessons of ruling. Or the jumps into the sea (Apollodorus, Caesarand .... Cleopatra) - quite unique!VIVIEN LEIGH: Before seeing the film, I did not expect her to be asgood as her Scarlett O\'Hara in GONE WITH THE WIND (1939). Now I mustsay that she is better as Cleopatra. Vivien gives a marvelousperformance as a girl dreaming of a handsome man with strong arms whocould protect her, and as a girl who later changes into a courageous,mighty queen. "If one man in all Alexandria can be found to say I didwrong, I swear to have myself be crucified on the door of the palace bymy own slaves," which she says to Caesar after ordering Pothinus to bekilled. And how wonderfully she plays one of the first scenes when she,in very unpredictable circumstances, finds out that the stranger shemet at the Sphynx and with whom she talked so trust-worthily, is Caesarhimself. UNFORGETTABLE! A lot of people associate only Liz Taylor withfilm Cleopatra. Not to mention Claudette Colbert, it is a pity theydon\'t find Leigh\'s performance as worth highest attention.It would be unfair to skip one more factor: other cast. Vivien shinesin her role but others do very good jobs as well. Claude Rains is avery different Caesar than in most other films (actors who played himwere, among others, Rex Harrison, William Warren, Fritz Leibner). Buthe is unforgettable, his face reflects a spirit of antiquity. FloraRobson who gives a memorable performance of Cleopatra\'s bossy servantFtatateeta, stresses rather male features of character. She does itwonderfully through her gestures and low voice. And Francis L Sullivanas Pothinus - really worth attention!All in all, there are many other aspects that make the movie highlyrecommended. Of course, it is difficult to mention everything in onereview. All I can say at the end of my review is: Do see the film!If you are Shaw\'s fan, you will find his spirit throughout. If you are Vivien Leigh\'s fan, you will be absolutely amazed by herperformance. If you are fond of historical, lavish epics, there will definitely besomething wonderful that you will appreciate in CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA.8/10!
=============
like ratio : 0.875
interest ratio: 1.0666666666666667
moviename: Caesar and Cleopatra
number of likes: 42
number of interests : 48