I think Miss Stanwyck was a great actress, but when I look at theversion of STELLA DALLAS that King Vidor directed her in twelve yearsafter this silent version..... well, something always bothered me aboutit. WHY was she supposed to be such a monster? She was BarbaraStanwyck. All right, she wasn't dressed as beautifully as she was inTHE LADY EVE, but being a little bit frumpy isn't against the law,especially when you look like Barbara Stanwyck.But when Belle Bennett dresses up in this movie, she is a well-meaninghorror, wearing stripes, frills, lace, feather, rings on her fingers,probably bells on her toes..... and a fat suit. You couldn't havegotten Miss Stanwyck into a fat suit. She had her eye on her career.But Belle Bennett had her eye on making this movie as good as possible,so she becomes a fat monster, loving her daughter and utterly clueless.It's a great performance.Also great is the way Henry King directs the sequences that take placein the mill town. No one had a better eye for the details of small townlife than Henry King, from TOL'ABLE David through WAIT TILL THE SUNSHINES NELLIE. Jean Hersholt also has a good role as Ed Munn, and alovely comic turn on the train into the city. Ronald Colman is fine,exuding the melancholia that he used throughout the 1930s whenever hehad to run away to the Foreign Legion or face the guillotine. AliceJoyce is sedate and charming, a fine counterpoint for Bennett. LoisMoran, as Stella's daughter is adorable, and Douglas Fairbanks Jr., inhis first real role, is excellent.There are a number of plot points that must be gotten through and whichare better indicated in Frances Marion's script than in the 1937version ... even though some points seem to be skipped over, they arebutchered worse in the sound version. Something always seems to bemissing from these weepers. It may be that it is simply that I am notable to appreciate the fine points of these things, but there you go.However, despite these minor failings, the above-mentioned virtues, aswell as the classic final shot of Stella watching the wedding throughthe window, make this is a great film, and it is only my annoyance atsome of the minor failings of the translation from book to film thatkeeps me from considering this perfect.But it is ten times the film that the sound remake is. Even if thevoice I hear in my head when Miss Bennett moves her lips is that ofBarbara Stanwyck.
=============
like ratio : 0.9047619047619048
interest ratio: 2.625
moviename: Stella Dallas
number of likes: 19
number of interests : 21