For 1945 with the Code firmly in place this film was quite daring inits subject matter. But the Esther Williams audience only wanted to seeEsther in a bathing suit in or out of the water and Thrill of a Romancegave the viewer plenty of both.Esther is a swimming instructor at a public pool in Los Angeles anddriving by one day is Howard Hughes like tycoon Carleton G. Young. Heputs on quite the campaign and they wed. But Young is far more interested in business and while at a resorthotel on their honeymoon, Carleton gets called away to Washington on abig deal. We know what his priorities are. So Esther is anunconsummated bride alone on her honeymoon, when up pops war hero VanJohnson. So for a week she and Van keep each other company and look pretty sadall the while.Now Thrill of a Romance was not advertised to be Hamlet, but I foundthe premise here to be way to silly. But with lots of shots of Estherwet and dry and music by Tommy Dorsey's Orchestra and Lauritz Melchiorof the Metropolitan Opera we had a whole lot of music of every taste. Ahighlight is a drum solo by Buddy Rich who after Frank Sinatra left asthe band's vocalist, was Dorsey's main attraction.Young Jerry Scott who plays Lyonel a bellboy at the hotel gives a nicelyric tenor interpretation of Because which that year was revived in abig hit record by Perry Como. Speaking of Sinatra, he recorded a song written for this film I ShouldCare which was authored by his personal arranger Axel Stordahl andSammy Cahn. Also sold a few platters back in the day. Melchior sung a wide range of both classical and popular tunes. And hesort of functioned in the role of a father confessor to both Johnsonand Williams. Had this been done at Warner Brothers, Melchior's partwould have been played by S.Z. Sakall. Melchior even had the cheeks forit.It's a nice film, maybe a little too light and too silly for today'saudience. But Esther Williams fans got what they wanted.
=============
like ratio : 0.9285714285714286
interest ratio: 0.56
moviename: Thrill of a Romance
number of likes: 13
number of interests : 14